.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Thorsten Kukuk
.\" This file is part of the yp-tools.
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@vt.uni-paderborn.de>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" {PTM/TW/0.1/22-07-1999/"drukuje wartości wszystkich kluczy z bazy danych NIS"}
.\" Translation (c) 1999 Tomasz Wendlandt <juggler@cp.pl>.
.\"
.TH ypcat 1 "maj 1998" "Narzędzia YP 2.2"
.SH NAZWA
ypcat - wypisuje zawartości mapy NIS
.SH SKŁADNIA
.B ypcat
[
.BR \-kt
]
[
.BI \-d " domena"
]
.I nazwamapy
.br
.B ypcat
.B \-x
.LP
.SH OPIS
.B ypcat
drukuje zawartości mapy NIS określonych przez
.IR nazwęmapy ,
które mogą być nazwą mapy lub pseudonimem mapy.
.SH OPCJE
.TP
.BI \-d " domena"
Określa nazwę domeny inną niż wartość domyślna, zwróconą przez
.BR domainname (1).
.TP
.B \-k
Wyświetla mapę kluczy. Ta opcja jest przydatna z mapami w których 
wartości są puste albo klucz nie jest częścią wartości.
.TP
.B \-t
Ta opcja hamuje tłumaczenie pseudonimu mapy.
.TP
.B \-x
Wyświetla tabelę tłumaczeń pseudonimów map.
.SH PLIKI
.TP
.B /var/yp/nicknames
tabela tłumaczeń pseudonimów map.
.SH "ZOBACZ TAKŻE"
.BR domainname (8),
.BR nicknames (5),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR yset (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.LP
.SH AUTOR
.B ypcat
jest częścią pakietu
.BR yp-tools ,
który został napisany przez Thorstena Kukuka <kukuk@vt.uni-paderborn.de>.
