.\" $Id: vboxgetty.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxgetty 8 "2000/09/15" "ISDN 4 Linux 3.12" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vboxgetty \- isdn voice box (getty)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vboxgetty
.I "[OPTION] [OPTION] [...]"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Vboxgetty is the heart of vbox: it watches the isdn system and waits
for incoming voice calls,

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file FILE
Config file to use. Default is the file '/etc/isdn/vboxgetty.conf'.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-device TTY
ISDNdevice to use. You must use this option!

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.

.SH CONFIGURING VBOX
vboxgetty should be started from the init process. To do this you need
one line per vboxgetty in /etc/inittab like this one:

I5:2345:respawn:'/usr/sbin'/vboxgetty -d /dev/ttyI5 

The next step is to set up a working configuration for all ports in
/etc/isdn/vboxgetty.conf: read vboxgetty.conf(5) how to do this and
look at the example config file in /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples.

You should then create the spool directories for each user:
/var/spool/vbox/<user>, /var/spool/vbox/<user>/incoming and
/var/spool/vbox/<user>/messages. Copy the example config files vbox.conf
and standard.tcl from /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples to
/var/spool/vbox/<user>, read the man pages vbox.conf(5) and vboxtcl(5)
and edit these config files. 

Change the owner of all files in /var/spool/vbox/<user> with "chown
<user>.<group> /var/spool/vbox/<user> -Rv" and correct the permissions
with "chmod o-rwx,g-rwx /var/spool/vbox/<user> -Rv".


The last step: run "init q" to force init to reread /etc/inittab

.SH HOW IT WORKS
For each line in /etc/inittab one vboxgetty is started by init.  Make
sure the first field (ID) and the device file are different. Each
vboxgetty does this:

First /etc/isdn/vbox.conf is read, the global settings are loaded and
then the port specific settings. Then vboxgetty waits for an incoming
call.

On an incoming call vboxgetty reads /var/spool/vbox/<user>/vbox.conf 
(unless you change that name), and vboxgetty determines if it should
take that call or how many RINGs it should wait. It also gets the
name of the standard message, beep message, timeout message, if these
should be played and an alias for the current caller, if there is one.

If vbox has waited enough RINGs and the caller is still ringing, it
takes the call and starts the tcl script
/var/spool/vbox/<user>/standard.tcl (unless you change that name), and
this script will do the rest (normally: play standard and beep
message, record and then play timeout message).

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/isdn/vboxgetty.conf
default config file

.TP
.B /etc/inittab
init starts vboxgetty via this file.

.TP
.B /etc/isdn/vboxgetty.conf
the global vbox config file

.TP
.B /var/spool/vbox/<user>/vbox.conf
the per user configuration file for this port

.TP
.B /var/spool/vbox/<user>/standard.tcl
the tcl script used to communicate with the caller

.TP
.B /var/run/vboxgetty-<device>.pid
process id of the vboxgetty

.TP
.B /var/log/vbox/vboxgetty-<device>.log
logfile of the vboxgetty

.SH SEE ALSO
.B vboxgetty.conf(5), vbox.conf(5), vboxtcl(5), isdntime(5)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux and isdn4linux.
