.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into German by Mike Fengler (mike@krt3.krt-soft.de)
.\"
.TH GROUP 5 "19. Dezember 1998" "Linux" "Dateiformate"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
group \- Benutzer - Gruppen Datei
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B /etc/group
ist eine ASCII Datei, die Gruppen definiert zu denen
Benutzer gehören.  Es gibt nur einen Eintrag pro Zeile, und jede
Zeile hat folgendes Format:
.sp
.RS
GruppenName:Passwort:GruppenKennung:BenutzerListe
.RE
.sp
Beschreibungen der Felder:
.IP GruppenName
Die Bezeichnung der Gruppe.
.IP Passwort
Das (verschlüsselte) Gruppenpasswort.  Wenn dieses Feld leer ist,
dann wird kein Passwort benötigt.
.IP GruppenKennung
Die numerische Identifikation der Gruppe.
.IP BenutzerListe
Alle Namen der Mitglieder, getrennt durch Kommas.
.SH DATEIEN
.I /etc/group
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR login (1),
.BR newgrp (1),
.BR passwd (5).
