.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:22 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated from english to german on Sat Dec 23 17:10:36 MET 1995
.\"                       by Rene Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de) 
.\" Sun Feb 11 14:07:00 MET 1996  Martin Schulze  <joey@linux.de>
.\"	* slightly modified
.\"
.TH ISSUE 5 "11. Februar 1996" "Linux" "Linux Programmierhandbuch"
.SH NAME
issue \- Systemidentifikationsdatei
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Datei \fB/etc/issue\fP ist eine Textdatei, die eine Nachricht oder
Systemidentifikation enthält, welche vor dem Login-Prompt angezeigt
werden soll. Sie darf verschiedene \fB@\fP\fIchar\fP und
\fB\e\fP\fIchar\fP Sequenzen enhalten, wenn .BR getty (1)
dies unterstützt.

.SH DATEIEN
.I /etc/issue
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getty (1).
