.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:08:16 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into German by Mike Fengler (mike@krt3.krt-soft.de)
.\"
.TH MOTD 5 "19. Dezember 1998" "Linux" "Dateiformate"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
motd \- message of the day (Mitteilung des Tages)
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Inhalt von 
.B /etc/motd
wird von
.BR login (1)
angezeigt, nach erfolgreichem Anmelden, aber noch vor Ausführen der
Login Shell.

Das "motd" steht für "message of the day" ("Mitteilung des Tages")
und die Datei wird traditionell genau dafür benutzt (sie benötigt
viel weniger Plattenplatz als eine elektonische Nachricht -Mail- an
alle Benutzer).
.SH DATEIEN
.I /etc/motd
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR login (1),
.BR issue (5).

