.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into German by Mike Fengler (mike@krt3.krt-soft.de)
.\"
.TH SHELLS 5 "19. Dezember 1998" "" "Dateiformate"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
shells \- Pfadnamen gültiger Login Shells
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B /etc/shells
ist eine Textdatei, die die vollen Pfadnamen der gültigen Login
Shells enthält.  Diese Datei wird von 
.BR chsh (1)
ausgewertet und steht auch anderen Programmen als Informations - Quelle
offen.
.SH BEISPIELE
.B /etc/shells
kann folgende Pfade beinhalten:
.sp
.RS
.B /bin/sh
.br
.B /bin/csh
.RE
.SH DATEIEN
.I /etc/shells
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR chsh (1).

