.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:17:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 19 21:25:21 MET 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond
.\" <esr@thyrsus.com>xk
.\" Translated into German by Mike Fengler (mike@krt3.krt-soft.de)
.\"
.TH TTYTYPE 5 "19. Dezember 1998" "Linux" "Dateiformate"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ttytype \- Standardtabelle zum Umsetzen von Terminal - Geräten in
Terminal - Arten
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die
.I /etc/ttytype
- Datei verknüpft termcap/terminfo Terminal - Typ - Namen mit Terminal
- Anschlüssen.  Jede Zeile besteht aus einem Terminaltyp, gefolgt
von einem oder mehreren Leerzeichen oder Tabulatorzeichen 
("whitespace"), gefolgt von einem Anschlussnamen (ein Gerätename
ohne Voranstellung von 
.IR /dev/
)

Diese Verknüpfung wird vo dem Programm
.BR tset (1)
dazu benutzt, die Umgebungs - Variable TERM auf den Standard - 
Terminal - Namen für den aktuellen Anschluss des Benutzers 
zu setzen.

Diese Einrichtung wurde für ein traditionelles Mehrplatz - System
entwickelt, mit zeichenbasierten Terminals, die fest mit einem
Unix Minicomputer verdrahtet waren. Bei modernen Workstations
und "persönlichen" Unix - Varianten wird sie kaum noch benutzt.
.SH BEISPIEL
Eine typische
.I /etc/ttytype
ist:
.RS
.sp
con80x25 tty1
.br
vt320 ttys0
.sp
.RE
.SH DATEIEN
.TP
.I /etc/ttytype
die tty Definitionsdatei.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getty (1),
.BR terminfo (5),
.BR termcap (5).

