.TH anytopnm 1 "11 July 2000"
.SH NAME
anytopnm - attempt to convert an unknown type of image file to a portable anymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anytopnm
.RI [ file ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B anytopnm
converts the input image, which may be in any of dozens of graphics
formats, to PBM, PGM, or PPM format, depending on that nature of the
input image, and outputs it to Standard Output.

To determine the format of the input,
.B anytopnm
uses the
.B file
program (possibly assisted by the magic numbers file fragment included
with Netpbm).
If that fails (very few image formats have magic numbers),
.B anytopnm
looks at the filename extension.
If that fails,
.B anytopnm
punts.
.PP
The type of the output file depends on the input image.

If
.B file
indicates that the input file is compressed (either via Unix compress,
gzip, or bzip compression),
.B anytopnm
uncompresses it and proceeds as above with the uncompressed result.

If
.B file
indicates that the input file is encoded by uuencode or btoa,
.B anytopnm
decodes it and proceeds as above with the decoded result.

If
.I file
is
.B -
or not given,
.B anytopnm
takes its input from Standard Input.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmfile (1),
.BR pnm (5),
.BR file (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
