.TH fiascotopnm 1 "July 12, 2000"

.SH NAME
fiascotopnm - Convert compressed FIASCO image to PGM, or PPM

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  fiascotopnm 
.RI [ option ]... 
.RI [ filename ]...

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fiascotopnm
decompresses the named FIASCO files, or the Standard Input if no file
is named, and writes the images as PGM, or PPM files, depending on
whether the FIASCO image is black and white or color.

.SH OPTIONS
All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --output may be
written --outp or --ou. For all options an one letter short option
is provided. Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are
mandatory or optional for short options, too. Both short and long
options are case sensitive.

.TP
\fB\-o\fP[\fIname\fP], \fB\-\-output=\fP[\fIname\fP]
Write decompressed image to the file \fIname\fP.ppm (if PPM)
or \fIname\fP.pgm (if PGM).  If
\fIname\fP=- then produce the image file on the standard output. The
optional argument \fIname\fP can be omitted, then the input filename
is used as basename with the suffix .ppm or .pgm. In case of video
streams, the frames are stored in the files \fIname\fP.\fBN\fP.ppm
where \fBN\fP is the frame number (of the form 00..0 - 99..9); output
on the standard output is not possible with video streams.

If \fIname\fP is a relative path and the environment variable
\fBFIASCO_IMAGES\fP is a (colon-separated) list of directories, then
the output file(s) are written to the first (writable) directory of
this list. Otherwise, the current directory is used to store the
output file(s).

.TP
\fB\-z\fP, \fB\-\-fast\fP
Decompress images in the 4:2:0 format; i.e., each chroma channel is
decompressed to an image of halved width and height. Use this option
on slow machines when the desired frame rate is not achieved; the
output quality is only slightly decreased. 

.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-double\fP
Double the size of the X11 window both in width and height; no pixel
interpolation is used, each pixel is just replaced by four identical
pixels.
 
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-panel\fP
Show a panel with play, stop, pause, record and exit buttons to
control the display of videos. When pressing the record button, all
frames are decompressed and stored in memory. The other buttons work
in the usual way.
 
.TP
\fB\-m\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-magnify=\fIN\fP
Set magnification of the decompressed image. Positive values enlarge
and negative values reduce the image width and height by a factor of
2^|\fIN\fP|.

.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-smooth=\fIN\fP
Smooth decompressed image(s) along the partitioning borders by the
given amount \fIN\fP. \fIN\fP is 1 (minimum) to 100 (maximum); default
is 70. When \fIN\fP=0, then the smoothing amount specified in the
FIASCO file is used (defined by the FIASCO coder).

.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIN\fP, \fB\-\-fps=\fIN\fP
Set number of frames per second to \fIN\fP. When using this option,
the frame rate specified in the FIASCO file is overridden.

.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version
Print 
.B fiascotopnm
version number, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIname\fP, \fB\-\-config=\fIname\fP
Load parameter file \fIname\fP to initialize the options of
.BR fiascotopnm .
See file
.B system.fiascorc 
for an example of the syntax. Options of
.B fiascotopnm 
are set by any of the following methods (in the specified order):

1) Global ressource file 
.B /etc/system.fiascorc

2) 
.RB $HOME /.fiascorc

3) command line

4) --config=\fIname\fP

.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-info
Print brief help, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-H\fP, \fB\-\-help
Print detailed help, then exit.


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
fiascotopnm foo.wfa >foo.ppm
Decompress the FIASCO file "foo.wfa" and store it as "foo.ppm".

.TP
fiascotopnm -o foo1.wfa foo2.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO files "foo1.wfa" and "foo2.wfa" and write the
frames to the image files "foo1.wfa.ppm" and "foo2.wfa.ppm".

.TP
fiascotopnm -oimage foo1.wfa
Decompress the FIASCO file "foo1.wfa" and write all 15
frames to the image files "image.00.ppm", ... , "image.14.ppm".

.TP
fiascotopnm --fast --magnify=-1 --double video.wfa >stream.ppm
Decompress the FIASCO file "video.wfa".  The decompression speed is as
fast as possible: the image is decompressed (in 4:2:0 format) at a
quarter of its original size; then the image is enlarged again by
pixel doubling.

.RE

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B /etc/system.fiascorc
The systemwide initialization file.
.TP
.RB $HOME /.fiascorc
The personal initialization file.
.PD

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP
.B FIASCO_IMAGES
Save path for image files. Default is "./".
.TP
.B FIASCO_DATA
Search path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".
.PD 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmtofiasco (1),
.BR pnm (5)

Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.
\fBWeighted Finite Automata for Video Compression\fP, IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
.br
Ullrich Hafner. \fBLow Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted
Finite Automata\fP, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch & Buch Verlag, ISBN
3-89820-002-7, October 1999.

.SH AUTHOR
Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>
