.TH ilbmtoppm 1 "04 October 1993"
.IX ilbmtoppm
.SH NAME
ilbmtoppm - convert an ILBM file into a portable pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ilbmtoppm
.RB [ -verbose ]
.RB [ -ignore <chunkID> ]
.RB [ -isham | -isehb ]
.RB [ -adjustcolors ]
.RI [ ILBMfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads an IFF ILBM file as input.
.IX "IFF"
.IX "ILBM"
Produces a portable pixmap as output.
Supported ILBM types are:
.TP
Normal ILBMs with 1-16 planes.
.TP
Amiga Extra_Halfbrite (EHB)
.IX "Amiga"
.TP
Amiga HAM with 3-16 planes.
.IX "HAM"
.TP
24 bit.
.TP
Multiplatte (normal or HAM) pictures.
.TP
Color map (BMHD + CMAP chunk only, nPlanes = 0).
.TP
Unofficial direct color.
1-16 planes for each color component.
.TP
Chunks used:
BMHD, CMAP, CAMG (only HAM & EHB flags used), PCHG, BODY
unofficial DCOL chunk to identify direct color ILBM
.TP
Chunks ignored:
GRAB, DEST, SPRT, CRNG, CCRT, CLUT, DPPV, DRNG, EPSF
.TP
Other chunks (ignored but displayed in verbose mode):
NAME, AUTH, (c), ANNO, DPI
.TP
Unknown chunks are skipped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -verbose
Give some information about the ILBM file.
.TP
.B -ignore <chunkID>
Skip a chunk.  <chunkID> is the 4-letter IFF chunk identifier of the chunk
to be skipped.
.TP
.B -isham | -isehb
Treat the input file as a HAM or Extra_Halfbrite picture, even if these
flags or not set in the CAMG chunk (or if there is no CAMG chunk).
.TP
.B -adjustcolors
If all colors in the CMAP have a value of less then 16, ilbmtoppm assumes
a 4-bit colormap and gives a warning.  With this option the colormap
is scaled to 8 bits.
.SH "BUGS"
The multipalette PCHG BigLineChanges and Huffman decompression code is untested.
.SH "REFERENCES"
Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual - Devices (3rd Ed.)
.br
Addison Wesley, ISBN 0-201-56775-X
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppm(5), ppmtoilbm(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.br
Modified October 1993 by Ingo Wilken (Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.


