.TH JPEGTOPNM 1 "19 March 2000"
.SH NAME
jpegtopnm \- convert JPEG/JFIF file to portable pixmap or graymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jpegtopnm
.RB [ -dct 
.RB { int | fast | float "}]"
.RB [ -nosmooth ]
.RB [ -maxmemory 
.IR N ]
.RB [{ -adobe | -notadobe }]
.RB [ -comments ]
.RB [ -dumpexif ]
.RB [ -exif=\fIfilespec ]
.RB [ -verbose ]
.RB [ -tracelevel
.IR N ]
[
.I filename
]

All options may be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B jpegtopnm
converts the named JFIF file, or the standard input if no file is
named to a PPM or PGM image file on the standard output.  If the JFIF
file is of the grayscale variety, 
.B jpegtopnm
generates a PGM (Portable Graymap) file.  Otherwise, it generates a
PPM (Portable Pixmap) file.
.PP
.B jpegtopnm
uses the Independent JPEG Group's JPEG library to interpret the input file.
See 
.B http://www.ijg.org 
for information on the library.

"JFIF" is the correct name for the image format commonly known as "JPEG."
Strictly speaking, JPEG is a method of compression.  The image format 
using JPEG compression that is by far the most common is JFIF.  There is
also a subformat of TIFF that uses JPEG compression.

EXIF is an image format that is a subformat of JFIF (to wit, a JFIF 
file that contains an EXIF header as an APP1 marker).
.B jpegtopnm
handles EXIF.

JFIF files can have either 8 bits per sample or 12 bits per sample.
The 8 bit variety is by far the most common.  There are two versions
of the IJG JPEG library.  One reads only 8 bit files and the other
reads only 12 bit files.  You must link the appropriate one of these 
libraries with 
.BR jpegtopnm .  
Ordinarily, this means the library is in your shared library search
path when you run
.BR jpegtopnm .

.B jpegtopnm
generates output with either one byte or two bytes per sample depending on
whether the JFIF input has either 8 bits or 12 bits per sample.  You can
use 
.B pnmdepth
to reduce a two-byte-per-sample file to a one-byte-per-sample file if
you need to.

If the JFIF file uses the CMYK or YCCK color space, the input does not
actually contain enough information to know what color each pixel is.
To know what color a pixel is, one would have to know the properties of
the inks to which the color space refers.
.B jpegtopnm
interprets the colors using the common transformation which assumes
all the inks are simply subtractive and linear.


.SH OPTIONS
The options are only for advanced users:
.TP
.B \-dct int
Use integer DCT method (default).
.TP
.B \-dct fast
Use fast integer DCT (less accurate).
.TP
.B \-dct float
Use floating-point DCT method.
The float method is very slightly more accurate than the int method, but is
much slower unless your machine has very fast floating-point hardware.  Also
note that results of the floating-point method may vary slightly across
machines, while the integer methods should give the same results everywhere.
The fast integer method is much less accurate than the other two.
.TP
.B \-nosmooth
Use a faster, lower-quality upsampling routine.
.TP
.BI \-maxmemory " N"
Set limit on the amount of memory 
.B jpegtopnm
uses in processing large images.  Value is in thousands of bytes, or
millions of bytes if "M" is suffixed to the number.  For example,
.B \-maxmemory 4m
selects 4000000 bytes.  If 
.B jpegtopnm
needs more space, it uses temporary files.
.TP
.B \-adobe
.TP
.B \-notadobe
There are two variations on the CMYK (and likewise YCCK) color space that
may be used in the JFIF input.  In the normal one, a zero value for a color
components indicates absence of ink.  In the other, a zero value means the
maximum ink coverage.  The latter is used by Adobe Photoshop when it creates
a bare JFIF output file (but not when it creates JFIF output as part of
Encapsulated Postscript output).  

These options tell 
.B jpegtopnm
which version of the CMYK or YCCK color space the image uses.  If you
specify neither,
.B jpegtopnm
tries to figure it out on its own.  In the present version, it doesn't
try very hard at all: It just assumes the Photoshop version, since
Photoshop and its emulators seem to be the main source of CMYK and
YCCK images.  But with experience of use, future versions might be
more sophisticated.

If the JFIF image does not indicate that it is CMYK or YCCK, these
options have no effect.

If you don't use the right one of these options, the symptom is output
that looks like a negative.

.TP
.B \-dumpexif
Print the interpreted contents of any Exif header in the input file to the 
Standard Error file.  Similar to the program
.B jhead
(not part of the Netpbm package).
.TP
.B \-exif=\fIfilespec
Extract the contents of the EXIF header from the input image and write it
to the file 
.IR filespec .
.I filespec 
= 
.B -
means write it to Standard Output.  In this case,
.B jpegtopnm
does not output the converted image at all.

.B jpegtopnm
writes the contents of the EXIF header byte-for-byte, starting with the
two byte length field (which length includes those two bytes).

You can use this file as input to 
.B ppmtojpeg
to insert an identical EXIF header into a new JFIF image.

If there is no EXIF header, 
.B jpegtopnm
writes two bytes of binary zero and nothing else.

An EXIF header takes the form of a JFIF APP1 marker.  Only the first
such marker within the JFIF header counts.

.TP
.B \-comments
Print any comments in the input file to the Standard Error file.
.TP
.B \-verbose
Print details about the conversion to the Standard Error file.
.TP
.BI \-tracelevel " n"
Turn on the JPEG library's trace messages to the Standard Error file.
A higher value of 
.I n
gets more trace information.
.B \-verbose
implies a trace level of at least 1.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
This example converts the color JFIF file foo.jpg to a PPM file
named foo.ppm:
.IP
.B jpegtopnm foo.jpg >foo.ppm

.SH HINTS
You can use 
.B ppmquant
to color quantize the result, i.e. to reduce the number of distinct colors
in the image.  In fact, you may have to if you want to convert the PPM
file to certain other formats.
.B ppmdither
Does a more sophisticated quantization.
.PP
Use
.B pnmscale
to change the dimensions of the resulting image.
.PP
Use
.B ppmtopgm 
to convert a color JFIF file to a grayscale PGM file.
.PP
You can easily use these converters together.  E.g.:
.IP
.B jpegtopnm foo.jpg | ppmtopgm | pnmscale .25 
.br
.B >foo.pgm
.PP
.B \-dct fast
and/or
.B \-nosmooth
gain speed at a small sacrifice in quality.
.PP
If you are fortunate enough to have very fast floating point hardware,
\fB\-dct float\fR may be even faster than \fB\-dct fast\fR.  But
on most machines \fB\-dct float\fR is slower than \fB\-dct int\fR;
in this case it is not worth using, because its theoretical accuracy
advantage is too small to be significant in practice.

Another program, 
.BR djpeg ,
is similar.  
.B djpeg
is maintained by the Independent JPEG Group and packaged with the 
JPEG library which 
.B jpegtopnm
uses for all its JPEG work.  Because of that, you may expect it to exploit
more current JPEG features.  Also, since you have to have the library to
run
.BR jpegtopnm ,
but not vice versa,
.B cjpeg
may be more commonly available.
.PP
On the other hand,
.B djpeg
does not use the NetPBM libraries to generate its output, as all the NetPBM
tools such as
.B jpegtopnm
do.  This means it is less likely to be consistent with all the other programs
that deal with the NetPBM formats.  Also, the command syntax of
.B jpegtopnm
is consistent with that of the other Netpbm tools, unlike
.BR djpeg .

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B JPEGMEM
If this environment variable is set, its value is the default memory limit.
The value is specified as described for the
.B \-maxmemory
option.  An explicit
.B \-maxmemory 
option overrides any 
.BR JPEGMEM .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppm (5),
.BR pgm (5),
.BR ppmtojpeg (1),
.BR ppmquant (1),
.BR pnmscale (1),
.BR ppmtopgm (1),
.BR ppmdither (1),
.BR pnmdepth (1),
.br
.BR djpeg (1),
.BR cjpeg (1),
.BR jpegtran (1),
.BR rdjpgcom (1),
.BR wrjpgcom (1),
.BR jhead (1)
.br
Wallace, Gregory K.  "The JPEG Still Picture Compression Standard",
Communications of the ACM, April 1991 (vol. 34, no. 4), pp. 30-44.

.SH LIMITATIONS
Arithmetic coding is not supported for legal reasons.
.PP
The program could be much faster.

.SH AUTHOR
.B jpegtopnm
and this man page were derived in large part from 
.BR djpeg ,
by the Independent JPEG Group.
The program is otherwise by Bryan Henderson on March 19, 2000.

