.TH pamcut 1 "03 August 2000"
.IX pamcut
.SH NAME
pamcut - cut a rectangle out of a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pamcut
.RB [ "-left \fIleftcol" ]
.RB [ "-right \fIrightcol" ]
.RB [ "-top \fItoprow" ]
.RB [ "-bottom \fIbottomrow" ]
.RB [ "-width \fIwidth" ]
.RB [ "-height \fIheight" ]
.RB [ "-pad" ]
.RB [ "-verbose" ]
[
.I left right width height
]
.RI [ pnmfile ]

All options may be abbreviated to the shortest unique prefix.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input.  Extracts the specified
rectangle, and produces the same kind of image as output.
.IX cut

There are two ways to specify the rectangle to cut: arguments and options.
Options are easier to remember and read, more expressive, and allow you
to use defaults.  Arguments were the only way available before July 2000.

If you use both options and arguments, the two specifications get
mixed in an unspecified way.

To use options, just code any mixture of the 
.BR -left ,
.BR -right ,
.BR -top ,
.BR -bottom , 
.BR -width ,
and
.BR -height
options.  What you don't specify defaults.  It is an error to overspecify,
i.e. to specify all three of 
.BR -left ,
.BR -right ,
and
.BR -width 
or
.BR -top ,
.BR -bottom , 
and
.BR -height .

To use arguments, specify all four of the 
.IR left ,
.IR right ,
.IR width ,
and
.IR height
arguments.
.I left
and 
.I top
have the same effect as specifying them as the argument of a 
.B -left
or
.B -top
option, respectively.
.I width
and 
.I height
have the same effect as specifying them as the argument of a
.B -width
or
.B -height
option, respectively, where they are positive.  Where they are not positive,
they have the same effect as specifying one less than the value as the 
argument to a 
.B -right
or 
.B -bottom
option, respectively.  (E.g. 
.I width 
= 0 makes the cut go all the way to the right edge).  Before July
2000, negative numbers were not allowed for
.I width
and
.IR height .

Input is from Standard Input if you don't specify the input file
.IR pnmfile .

Output is to Standard Output.

If you are splitting a single image into multiple same-size images,
.B pamdice
is faster than running
.B pamcut
multiple times.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -left
The column number of the leftmost column to be in the output.
If a nonnegative number, it refers to columns numbered from 0 at the left,
increasing to the right.  If negative, it refers to columns numbered
-1 at the right, decreasing to the left.
.TP
.B -right
The column number of the rightmost column to be in the output, numbered
the same as for 
.BR -left.
.TP
.B -top
The row number of the topmost row to be in the output.  If a
nonnegative number it refers to rows numbered from 0 at the top,
increasing downward.  If negative, it refers to columns numbered -1 at
the bottom, decreasing upward.
.TP
.B -bottom
The row number of the bottom-most row to be in the output, numbered the
same as for 
.BR -top .
.TP
.B -width
The number of columns to be in the output.  Must be positive.
.TP
.B -height
The number of rows to be in the output.  Must be positive.
.TP 
.B -pad
If the rectangle you specify is not entirely within the input image, 
.B pamcut
fails unless you also specify
.BR -pad .
In that case, it pads the output with black up to the edges you specify.
You can use this option if you need to have an image of certain dimensions
and have an image of arbitrary dimensions.

.B pnmpad
also adds borders to an image, but you specify their width directly.

.TP
.B -verbose
Print information about the processing to Standard Error.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmcrop (1),
.BR pnmpad (1),
.BR pnmcat (1),
.BR pgmslice (1),
.BR pnm (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
