.TH pamdice 1 "31 January 2001"
.IX pamdice
.SH NAME
pamdice - slice a Netpbm image into many horizontally and/or vertically

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pamslice
.BI -outstem= filenamestem
.RB [ -width=\fIwidth ]
.RB [ -height=\fIheight ]
.RB [ -verbose ]
.RI [ filename ]

You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can use
two hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option name from its value
with white space instead of an equals sign.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input.  Splits it horizontally and/or
vertically into equal size pieces and writes them into separate files as
the same kind of image.

See the 
.B -outstem
option for information on naming of the output files.

The 
.B -width
and
.B -height
options determine the size of the output pieces.

.B pnmcat
can rejoin the images.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -outstem= filenamestem
This option determines the names of the output files.  Each output file 
is named
.IB filenamestem _ y _ x . type
where 
.I filenamestem
is the value of the 
.B -outstem
option, 
.I x
and y are the horizontal and vertical locations, respectively, in the
input image of the output image, zero being the leftmost and top, and
.I type
is 
.BR .pbm ,
.BR .pgm ,
.BR .ppm ,
or
.BR .pam ,
depending on the type of image.

.TP
.BI -width= width
gives the width in pixels of the output images.  The rightmost pieces are
smaller than this if the input image is not a multiple of 
.I width 
pixels wide.

.TP
.BI -height= height
gives the height in pixels of the output images.  The bottom pieces are
smaller than this if the input image is not a multiple of 
.I height 
pixels high.

.TP
.B -verbose
Print information about the processing to Standard Error.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pamcut (1),
.BR pnmcat (1),
.BR pgmslice (1),
.BR pnm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
put by Bryan Henderson in the public domain in 2001
