.TH pbmclean 1 "18 Oct 2001"
.IX pbmclean
.SH NAME
pbmclean - flip isolated pixels in portable bitmap

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbmclean 
.RB [ -minneighbors=\fIN\fR ]
.RB [ -black | -white ]
.RI [ pbmfile ]

You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can use
two hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option name from its value
with white space instead of an equals sign.

Before December 2001,
.B pbmclean
accepted 
.BI - N
instead of
.BR -minneighbors .

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pbmclean
cleans up a PBM image of random specs.  It reads a PBM image as input
and outputs a PBM that is the same as the input except with every
pixel which has less than
.I N
identical neighbours inverted.

The default for
.I N
is 1 - only completely isolated pixels are flipped.  

(A value of 
.I N
greater than 8 generates a completely inverted image (but use
.B pnminvert
to do that) -- or a completely white or completely black image with 
the
.B -black
or 
.B -white
option).

.B pbmclean
considers the area beyond the edges of the image to be white.  (This
matters when you consider pixels right on the edge of the image).

You can use
.B pbmclean 
to clean up "snow" on bitmap images.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -black
.TP
.B -white
Flip pixels of the specified color.  By default, if you specify neither
.B -black
nor 
.BR -white , 
.B pbmclean
flips both black and white pixels which do not have sufficient identical
neighbors.  If you specify
.BR -black ,
.B pbmclean
leaves the white pixels alone and just erases isolated black pixels.
Vice versa for
.BR -white .
You may specify both
.B -black
and
.B -white
to get the same as the default behavior.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pbm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1990 by Angus Duggan
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
Copyright (C) 2001 by Michael Sternberg.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.
