.TH pbmtextps 1 "02 January 2003"
.IX pbmtextps
.SH NAME
pbmtextps - render text into a bitmap via postscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbmtextps
.RB [ \-font
.IR fontfile ]
.RB [ \-fontsize
.IR fontsize ]
.RB [ \-resolution
.IR resolution ]
.RB [ \-stroke
.IR strokesize ]
.RB [ \-verbose
.RI [ text ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pbmtextps
takes a single line of text from the command line and renders it into a PBM
image.

The image is cropped at the top and the right. It is not cropped at the
left or bottom so that the text begins at the same position relative to the
origin. You can use
.B pnmcrop
to crop it all the way.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -font
By default,
.B pbmtextps
uses TimesRoman.
You can specify the font to use with the
.B -font
option. This is the name of any valid postscript font which is installed on
your system.

.TP
.BR -fontsize
Size of font in points. See the
.B -resolution
option for information on how to interpret this size.

Default is 24 points. 

.TP
.BR -resolution
Resolution in dots per inch of distance measurements pertaining to
generation of the image. PBM images don't have any inherent resolution, so
a distance such as "1 inch" doesn't mean anything unless you separately
specify what resolution you're talking about. That's what this option does.

In particular, the meaning of the font size is determined by this
resolution. If the font size is 24 points and the resolution is 150 dpi,
then the font size is 50 pixels.

Default is 150 dpi. 


.TP
.BR -stroke
Width of line to use for stroke font. There is no default stroke width
because the letters are solid by default. 
 

.SH USAGE

See
.B pbmtext
for usage examples.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pbmtext (1), 
.BR pnmcut (1), 
.BR pnmcrop (1),
.BR pnmcomp (1),
.BR ppmchange (1),
.BR pnmrotate (1),
.BR ppmlabel (1),
.BR pbm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2002 by James McCann
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.

