.TH pbmtopgm 1 "03 Sep 2001"
.SH NAME
pbmtopgm - convert portable bitmap to portable graymap by averaging areas

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbmtopgm 
.I width
.I height
.RI [ pbmfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pbmtopgm
reads a portable bitmap as input.  It outputs a portable graymap 
in which each pixel's gray level is the average the surrounding black
and white input pixels.  The surrounding area is a rectangle of
.I width
by 
.I height
pixels.

In other words, this is a convolution.  
.B pbmtopgm 
is similar to a special case of 
.BR pnmconvol .

You may need a 
.B ppmsmooth
step after
.BR pbmtopgm .

.B pbmtopgm 
has the effect of anti-aliasing bitmaps which contain distinct line
features.

.B pbmtopgm 
works best with odd sample width and heights.

You don't need
.B pbmtopgm
just to use a PGM program on a PBM image.  Any PGM program (assuming it uses
the Netpbm libraries to read the PGM input) takes PBM input as if it were
PGM, with only the mininum and maximum gray levels.  So unless your convolution
rectangle is bigger than one pixel, you're not gaining anything with a 
.B pbmtopgm
step.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR netpbm (1),
.BR pgmtopbm (1),
.BR pbm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1990 by Angus Duggan
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.
