.TH pnmcolormap 1 "12 December 2001"
.IX pnmcolormap
.SH NAME
pnmcolormap - create quantization color map for a portable anymap

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmcolormap
.RB [ -center | -meancolor | -meanpixel ]
.RB [ -spreadbrightness | -spreadluminosity ]
.RB [ -sort ]
.RB [ -square ]
.IR ncolors | \fBall
.RI [ pnmfile ]

All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may
use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and
its value.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PNM image as input.  Chooses
.I ncolors
colors to best represent the image, maps the existing colors
to the new ones, and writes a PNM color map defining them as output.
.IX "colormap reduction"

You can use this map as input to 
.B pnmremap
on the same input image to quantize the colors in that image, I.e. 
produce a similar image with fewer colors.
.B pnmquant
does both the 
.B pnmcolormap
and
.B pnmremap
steps for you.

A PNM colormap is a PNM image of any dimensions that contains at least one
pixel of each color in the set of colors it represents.

The quantization method is Heckbert's "median cut".
.IX "median cut"
See the section QUANTIZATION METHOD.

If the input image is a PPM, the output image is a PPM.  If the input
image is a PBM or PGM, the output colormap is a PGM.  Note that a colormap
of a PBM image is not very interesting.

The colormap generally has the same maxval as the input image, but
.B pnmcolormap
may reduce it if there are too many colors in the input, as part of its
quantization algorithm.

If you want to create a colormap without basing it on the colors in an
input image, see
.BR ppmcolors .

.SH PARAMETERS

The single parameter, which is required, is the number of colors you want
in the output colormap.  
.B pnmcolormap
may produce a color map with slightly fewer colors than that.  You may
specify
.B all
to get a colormap of every color in the input image (no quantization).


.B OPTIONS
.TP
.B -sort
This option causes the output colormap to be sorted by the red component
intensity, then the green, then the blue in ascending order.  This is an 
insertion sort, so it is not very fast on large colormaps.  Sorting is
useful because it allows you to compare two sets of colors.
.TP
.B -square
By default,
.B pnmcolormap
produces as the color map a PPM image with one row and one column for each
color in the colormap.  This option causes
.B pnmcolormap
instead to produce a PPM image that is within one row or column of being
square, with multiple pixels of the same color as necessary to create a 
number of pixels which is a perfect square.
.TP
.B -verbose
This option causes
.B pnmcolormap
to display messages to Standard Error about the quantization.
.TP
.B -center
.TP
.B -meancolor
.TP
.B -meanpixel
.TP
.B -spreadbrightness
.TP
.B -spreadluminosity
These options control the quantization algorithm.  See
QUANTIZATION METHOD below.


.SH QUANTIZATION METHOD

A quantization method is a way to choose which colors, being fewer in 
number than in the input, you want in the output.
.B pnmcolormap
uses Heckbert's "median cut" quantization method.

This method involves separating all the colors into "boxes," each
holding colors that represent about the same number of pixels.  You
start with one box and split boxes in two until the number of boxes is
the same as the number of colors you want in the output, and choose
one color to represent each box.

When you split a box, you do it so that all the colors in one sub-box
are "greater" than all the colors in the other.  "Greater," for a
particular box, means it is brighter in the color component
(red, green, blue) which has the largest spread in that box.
.B pnmcolormap
gives you two ways to define "largest spread.":  1) largest spread of
brightness; 2) largest spread of contribution to the luminosity of the
color.  E.g. red is weighted much more than blue.  Select among these
with the 
.B -spreadbrightness
and
.B -spreadluminosity
options.  The default is 
.BR -spreadbrightness .

.B pnmcut
provides three ways of choosing a color to represent a box: 1) the
center color - the color halfway between the greatest and least colors
in the box, using the above definition of "greater"; 2) the mean of
the colors (each component averaged separately by brightness) in the
box; 3) the mean weighted by the number of pixels of a color in the
image.

Note that in all three methods, there may be colors in the output which
do not appear in the input at all.

Select among these with the
.BR -center ,
.BR -meancolor ,
and
.BR -meanpixel
options.  The default is
.BR -center .



.SH REFERENCES
"Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display" by Paul Heckbert,
SIGGRAPH '82 Proceedings, page 297.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmremap (1),
.BR pnmquant (1),
.BR ppmquantall (1), 
.BR pnmdepth (1), 
.BR ppmdither (1), 
.BR ppmquant (1),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Copyright (C) 2001 by Bryan Henderson.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
