.TH pnmindex 1 "9 January 1991"
.IX pnmindex
.SH NAME
pnmindex - build a visual index of a bunch of anymaps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmindex
.RB [ -size
.IR N ]
.RB [ -across
.IR N ]
.RB [ -colors
.IR N ]
.RB [ -black ]
.RB [ -title
.IR T ]
.RB [ -quant | -noquant ]
.I pnmfile
.RI ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pnmindex
creates an index image containing thumbnail (small) versions of a bunch of
PNM files you supply.

.B pnmindex
labels each thumbnail and, optionally, contains a title.

.IX index

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -size \fIN
The size of each thumbnail.  The image is scaled to fit maximally inside
a 
.I N
x
.I N
pixel box without changing its aspect ratio.
Default is 100.
.TP
.B -across \fIN
The number of thumbnails in each row.
Default is 6.
.TP
.B -colors \fIN
The maximum number of colors allowed in the overall image.
If it would otherwise have more colors than these,
.B pnmindex
quantizes the result.
The default is 256.

However, this value is meaningless if you specify the
.B -noquant
option.
.TP
.B -black
This controls the color of the padding between the images;
normally it's white and the labels are black lettering on white background,
but the
.B -black
flag reverses this.
.TP
.B -title \fItitle
Specifies a title top place at the top of the image.
Default is no title.
.TP
.B -quant
Enables quanization (to the number of colors specified by
.B -colors
).
Quantization is on by default but you can disable it with
.B -noquant.
.TP
.B -noquant
See 
.BR -quant .

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmscale (1), 
.BR pnmcat (1), 
.BR pbmtext (1), 
.BR ppmquant (1), 
.BR pnm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
.B -title
and
.B -noquant
added 2000 by John Heidemann.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
