.TH pnmpad 1 "26 January 2002"
.SH NAME
pnmpad - add borders to portable anymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmpad 
.RB [ -verbose ] 
.RB [ -white | -black ] 
.br
.RB [[[ -width=\fIwidth 
.RB [ -halign=\fIratio ]] 
| 
.br
.RB "   [" -left=\fIleftpad ]
.RB [ -right=\fIrightpad ]]]
.br
.RB [[[ -height=\fIheight 
.RB [ -valign=\fIratio ]] 
| 
.br
.RB "   [" -top=\fItoppad ]
.RB [ -bottom=\fIbotpad ]]] 
.br
.RI [ pnmfile ]

All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may
use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and
its value.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Reads a PNM image as input. Outputs a PNM image that is the input
image plus black or white borders of the sizes specified.  

If you just need to convert an image to a certain size regardless of 
the original dimensions,
.B pnmcut
with the 
.B -pad
option may be a better choice.


.SH OPTIONS

.B -verbose
.RS
Verbose output.
.RE

.B -white
.br
.BR -black " (default)"
.RS
Set pad color.
.RE

.BI "-left " leftpad
.br
.BI "-right " rightpad
.br
.BI "-top " toppad
.br
.BI "-bottom " bottompad
.RS
Specify amount of padding in pixels.
.RE

.BI "-width " width
.RS
Set desired width of image. Overrides
.BR -left " and " -right " if specified. If"
.I width
is less than the actual image width, it is ignored. Use
.BR pnmcut (1)
to cut off parts of images.
.RE

.BI "-height " height
.RS
Set desired height of image. Overrides
.BR -top " and " -bottom " if specified. If"
.I height
is less than the actual image height, it is ignored. Use
.BR pnmcut (1)
to cut off parts of images.
.RE

.BI "-halign " ratio
.RS
A real number between 0 and 1. Used in conjunction with
.BR -width ", sets the alignment ratio between left"
padding and right padding.

Useful values:
.TP
.B 0.0
- left aligned;
.TP
.B 0.5
- center aligned (default);
.TP
.B 1.0
- right aligned.
.RE

.BI "-valign " ratio
.RS
A real number between 0 and 1. Used in conjunction with
.BR -height ", sets the alignment ratio between bottom"
padding and top padding.

Useful values:
.TP
.B 0.0
- bottom aligned;
.TP
.B 0.5
- center aligned (default);
.TP
.B 1.0
- top aligned.
.RE

.SH "HISTORY"
.TP
Before February 2002, 
.B pnmpad
had a different option syntax which was less expressive and not like
conventional Netpbm programs.  That syntax is still understood by 
.BR pnmpad 
for backward compatibility,
but not documented or supported for future use.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pbmmake (1),
.BR pnmpaste (1),
.BR pnmcut (1),
.BR pnmcrop (1),
.BR pbm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2002 by Martin van Beilen
.br
Copyright (C) 1990 by Angus Duggan
.br
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.
