.TH pnmremap 1 "01 January 2002"
.IX pnmremap
.SH NAME
pnmremap - replace colors in a PPM image with colors from another set

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmremap
.RB [ -floyd | -fs | -nfloyd | -nofs ]
.RB [ -firstisdefault ]
.RB [ -verbose ]
.RB [ -mapfile=\fImapfile ]
.RB [ -missingcolor=\fIcolor ]
.RI [ pnmfile ]

All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may
use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and
its value.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B pnmremap
replaces the colors in an input image with those from a colormap you
specify.  Where a color in the input is not in the colormap, you have
three choices: 1) choose the closest color from the colormap; 
2) choose the first color from the colormap; 3) use a color specified
by a command option.  (In this latter case, if the color you specify is
not in your color map, the output will not necessarily contain only 
colors from the colormap).

Two reasons to do this are: 1) you want to reduce the number of colors
in the input image; and 2) you need to feed the image to something that
can handle only certain colors.

To reduce colors, you can generate the colormap with 
.BR ppmcolormap .  
Example:

.B ppmcolormap testimg.ppm 256 >colormap.ppm
.br
.B ppmremap -map=colormap.ppm testimg.ppm 
.br
.B >reduced_testimg.ppm

To limit colors to a certain set, a typical example is to create an image
for posting on the World Wide Web, where different browsers know different
colors.  But all browsers are supposed to know the 216 "web safe" colors
which are essentially all the colors you can represent in a PPM image with
a maxval of 5.  So you can do this:

.B ppmcolors 5 >websafe.ppm
.br
.B ppmremap -map=webafe.ppm testimg.ppm >websafe_testimg.ppm

The output image has the same type and maxval as the map file.  


.SH PARAMETERS

There is one parameter, which is required:  The file specifcation of the
input PNM file.


.B OPTIONS
.TP
.B -floyd
.B -fs
.B -nofloyd
.B -nofs
These options determine whether Floyd-Steinberg dithering is done.
Without Floyd-Steinberg, the selection of output color of a pixel is based
on the color of only the corresponding input pixel.  With Floyd-Steinberg,
multiple input pixels are considered so that the average color of an area
tends to stay more the same than without Floyd-Steinberg.  For example, 
if you map an image with a black, gray, gray, and white pixel
adjacent, through a map that contains only black and white, it might 
result in an output of black, black, white, white.  Pixel-by-pixel
mapping would instead map both the gray pixels to the same color.

.B -fs
is a synomym for
.BR -floyd .
.B -nofs
is a synonym for
.BR -nofloyd .

The default is 
.BR -nofloyd .

.TP
.B -firstisdefault
This affects what happens with a pixel in the input image whose color is not
in the map file.  If you specify neither
.B -firstisdefault
nor
.BR -missingcolor ,
.B pnmremap
chooses for the output the color in the map which is closest to the
color in the input.  With
.BR -firstisdefault ,
.B pnmremap
instead uses the first color in the colormap.

If you specify 
.BR -firstisdefault ,
the maxval of your input must match the maxval of your colormap.

.TP
.B -missingcolor=\fIcolor
This affects what happens with a pixel in the input image whose color is not
in the map file.  If you specify neither
.B -firstisdefault
nor
.BR -missingcolor ,
.B pnmremap
chooses for the output the color in the map which is closest to the
color in the input.
With
.BR -missingcolor ,
.B pnmremap 
uses 
.IR color .
.I color
need not be in the colormap.

If you specify 
.BR -missingcolor ,
the maxval of your input must match the maxval of your colormap.

.TP
.B -verbose
Display helpful messages about the mapping process.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmcolormap (1),
.BR ppmcolors (1),
.BR pnmquant (1),
.BR ppmquantall (1), 
.BR pnmdepth (1), 
.BR ppmdither (1), 
.BR ppmquant (1),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Copyright (C) 2001 by Bryan Henderson.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
