.TH pnmtofits 1 "5 Dec 1992"
.IX pnmtofits
.SH NAME
pnmtofits - convert a portable anymap into FITS format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmtofits
.RB [ \-max 
.IR f ]
.RB [ \-min
.IR f ]
.RI [ pnmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable anymap as input.
Produces a FITS (Flexible Image Transport System) file as output.
The resolution of the output file is either 8 bits/pixel,
or 16 bits/pixel, depending on the value of maxval in the input file.
If the input file is a portable bitmap or a portable graymap, the output file
consists of a single plane image (NAXIS = 2). If instead the input file is
a portable pixmap, the output file will consist of a three-plane image
(NAXIS = 3, NAXIS3 = 3).
A full description of the FITS format
can be found in Astronomy & Astrophysics Supplement Series 44 (1981), page 363.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Flags 
.B \-min
and 
.B \-max
can be used to set DATAMAX, DATAMIN, BSCALE and BZERO in the FITS
header, but do not cause the data to be rescaled.
.SH BUGS
.PP
FITS uses signed data, and this program outputs unsigned values. If you
run into this problem, you might use "-min 32768".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fitstopnm(1), pgm(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989 by Wilson H. Bent (whb@hoh-2.att.com), with
modifications
by Alberto Accomazzi (alberto@cfa.harvard.edu).
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
