.TH pnmtopalm 1 "7 December 2000"
.IX pnmtopalm
.SH NAME
pnmtopalm - convert a portable anymap into a Palm pixmap

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmtopalm
.RB [ -verbose ]
.RB [ -depth 
.IR N ]
.RB [ -maxdepth 
.IR N ]
.RB [ -colormap ]
.RB [ -transparent 
.IR color ]
.RB [ -offset ]
.br
.RB [ -rle-compression | -scanline-compression ]
.RI [ pnmfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PNM image as input, from stdin or 
.IR pnmfile .
Produces a Palm pixmap as output.
.IX 
.PP
Palm pixmap files are either greyscale files 1, 2, or 4 bits wide, or
color files 8 bits wide, so 
.B pnmtopalm 
automatically scales colors to have an appropriate maxval, unless you
specify a depth or max depth.  Input files must have an appropriate
number and set of colors for the selected output constraints.  This
often means that you should run the PNM image through
.B ppmquant
before you pass it to
.BR pnmtopalm .  
Netpbm comes with several colormap files you can use with 
.BR ppmquant 
for this purpose.  They are 
.B palmgray2.map 
(4 shades of gray for a depth of 2),
.B palmgray4.map 
(16 shades of gray for a depth of 4), and
.B palmcolor8.map 
(232 colors in default Palm colormap).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -verbose
Display the format of the output file.
.TP
.B -depth \fIN
Produce a file of depth 
.IR N , 
where 
.I N 
must be either 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16.  Any depth greater than 1 will
produce a version 1 or 2 bitmap.  Because the default Palm 8-bit
colormap is not grayscale, if the input is a grayscale or monochrome
pixmap, the output will never be more than 4 bits deep, regardless of
the specified depth.  Note that 8-bit color works only in PalmOS 3.5
(and higher), and 16-bit direct color works only in PalmOS 4.0 (and
higher).  However, the 16-bit direct color format is also compatible
with the various PalmOS 3.x versions used in the Handspring Visor, so
these images may also work in that device.
.TP
.B -maxdepth \fIN
Produce a file of minimal depth, but in any case less than 
.I N 
bits wide.  If you specify 16-bit, the output will always be 16-bit
direct color.
.TP
.B -offset
Fill in the 
.B nextDepthOffset 
field in the file header, to provide for multiple renditions of the
pixmap in the same file.
.TP
.B -colormap
Build a custom colormap and include it in the output file.  This is
not recommended by Palm, for efficiency reasons.  Otherwise, 
.B pnmtopalm 
uses the default Palm colormap for color output.
.TP
.B -transparent \fIcolor
Marks
.I one
particular color as fully transparent.  The format to specify the
color is either (when for example orange) "1.0,0.5,0.0", where the
values are floats between zero and one, or with the syntax "#RGB",
"#RRGGBB" or "#RRRRGGGGBBBB" where R, G and B are hexadecimal numbers.
This also makes the output bitmap a version 2 bitmap.  Transparency
works only on Palm OS 3.5 and higher.
.TP
.B -rle-compression
Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm RLE
compression scheme, and will be a version 2 bitmap.  RLE compression
works only with Palm OS 3.5 and higher.
.TP
.B -scanline-compression
Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm scanline
compression scheme, and will be a version 2 bitmap.  Scanline
compression works only in Palm OS 2.0 and higher.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR palmtopnm (1), 
.BR ppmquant (1), 
.BR pnm (5)

.SH NOTES
An additional compression format, 
.BR packbits , 
was added with PalmOS 4.0.  This package should be updated to 
be able to generate that.

Palm pixmaps may contains multiple renditions of the same pixmap, in
different depths.  To construct an N-multiple-rendition Palm pixmap
with 
.BR pnmtopalm , 
first construct renditions 1 through N-1 using the 
.B -offset
option, then construct the Nth pixmap without the 
.B -offset 
option.  Then concatenate the individual renditions together in a
single file using 
.BR cat .

.SH AUTHORS
This program was originally written as ppmtoTbmp.c, by Ian Goldberg
and George Caswell.  It was completely re-written by Bill Janssen to
add color, compression, and transparency function.
.br
Copyright 1995-2001 by Ian Goldberg, George Caswell, and Bill Janssen.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
.\"
.\" This man-page was derived from pnmtorast.1 by Jef Poskanzer
