.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.TH PNMTORLE 1 "March 31, 1994" 1
.SH NAME
pnmtorle \- convert a Netpbm image file into an RLE image file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmtorle
[
.B \-h
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-a
] [
.BI \-o " outfile"
] [
.I pnmfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts Netpbm image files into Utah
.BR RLE (5)
image files.  You can include an alpha mask.  If the input is a multiple
image file, the output consists of several concatenated RLE images.
.PP
The RLE file will contain either a three channel color image (24 bits) or
a single channel grayscale image (8 bits) depending upon the pnm file depth.
If a converted ppm is displayed on an 8 bit display, the image must be
dithered.  In order to produce a better looking image (on 8 bit displays),
it is recommended that the image be quantizing (to 8 bit mapped color) prior
to its display.  This may be done by piping the output of this program into
the Utah
.BR mcut (1)
or
.BR rlequant (1)
utilities.
An example of this is shown later.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
This option will cause pnmtorle to operate in verbose mode.  The header
information is written to "stderr".  Actually, there is not much header
information stored in a Netpbm file, so this information is minimal.
.TP
.B \-h
This option allows the header of the Netpbm image to be dumped to "stderr"
without converting the file.  It is equivalent to using the \-v option except
that no file conversion takes place.
.TP
.B \-a
This option causes pnmtorle to include an alpha channel in the output
image.  The alpha channel is based on the image:  Wherever a pixel 
is black, the corresponding alpha value is transparent.  Everywhere
else, the alpha value is fully opaque.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
If specified, the output will be written to this file.  If 
.I outfile
is "\-", or if it is not specified, the output will be written to the
standard output stream.
.TP
.I pnmfile
The name of the Netpbm image data file to be converted.  If not specified,
standard input is assumed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
pnmtorle \-v file.ppm \-o file.rle
While running in verbose mode, convert file.ppm to RLE format and store
resulting data in file.rle.
.TP
pnmtorle \-h file.pgm
Dump the header information of the Netpbm file called file.pgm.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rletopnm (1),
.BR urt (1),
.BR RLE (5).
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Wes Barris
.br
Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
.br
Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
