.TH ppmdist 1 "22 July 1992"
.IX ppmdist
.SH NAME
ppmdist - simplistic grayscale assignment for machine generated, color images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmdist
.RB [ -intensity | -frequency ]
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input, performs a simplistic grayscale
assignment intended for use with grayscale or bitmap printers.

Often conversion from ppm to pgm will yield an image with contrast too
low for good printer output.  The program maximizes contrast between
the gray levels output.

A ppm input of n colors is read, and a pgm of n gray levels is written.
The gray levels take on the values 0..n-1, while maxval takes on n-1.

The mapping from color to stepped grayscale can be performed in order
of input pixel intensity, or input pixel frequency (number of repetitions).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 14
.TP 14
.BI -frequency
Sort input colors by the number of times a color appears in the input,
before mapping to evenly distributed graylevels of output.
.BI -intensity
Sort input colors by their grayscale intensity, before mapping to evenly
distributed graylevels of output.  This is the default.
.SH BUGS
Helpful only for images with a very small number of colors.
Perhaps should have been an option to ppmtopgm(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppmtopgm(1), ppmhist(1), ppm(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993 by Dan Stromberg.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
