.TH ppmrainbow 1 "1 July 2001"
.IX ppmrainbow
.SH NAME
ppmrainbow - Generate a rainbow

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmrainbow
.RB [ "-width=\fInumber" ]
.RB [ "-height=\fInumber" ]
.br
.RB [ "-tmpdir=\fIdirectory" ]
.RB [ -verbose ]
.IR color " ..."

.PP
All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You
may use two hyphens instead of one to designate an option.  You may
use either white space or equals signs between an option name and its
value.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ppmrainbow
generates a PPM image that fades from one color to another to another
from left to right, like a rainbow.  The colors are those you specify
on the command line, in that order.  The first color is added again on
the right end of the image.

If you want a vertical or other non-horizontal rainbow, run the output
through
.BR pnmrotate .

One use for such a rainbow is to compose it with another image under
an alpha mask in order to add a rainbow area to another image.  In fact,
you can make rainbow-colored text by using 
.BR pbmtext ,
.BR pnmcomp ,
and 
.BR ppmrainbow .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -width \fInumber
The width in pixels of the output image.

Default is 600.
.TP
.B -height \fInumber
The height in pixels of the output image.

Default is 8.
.TP
.B -tmpdir
The directory specification of the directory 
.B ppmrainbow
is to use for temporary files.

Default is the value of the 
.B TMPDIR 
environment variable, or 
.I /tmp
if 
.B TMPDIR 
is not set.
.TP
.B -verbose
Print the "commands" (invocations of other Netpbm programs) that
.B ppmrainbow
uses to create the image.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ppmmake (1), 
.BR pnmcomp (1), 
.BR pbmtext (1),
.BR ppmfade (1),
.BR ppm (5).

.SH AUTHOR

Arjen Bax wrote 
.BR ppmrainbow 
in June 2001 and contributed it to the Netpbm package.  Bryan
Henderson wrote this man page in July 2001.
\"Contributed to the public domain. This software is provided in
\"the hope that it will be useful, but without warranty.
