.TH ppmshift 1 "16 November 1993"
.IX ppmshift
.SH NAME
ppmshift - shift lines of a portable pixmap left or right by a random amount
.SH SYNOPSIS
ppmshift 
.I shift
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input. Shifts every row of image data to the
left or right by a certain amount. The 'shift' parameter determines by how 
many pixels a row is to be shifted at most.
.PP
Another one of those effects I intended to use for MPEG tests.
Unfortunately, this program will not help me here - it creates too random
patterns to be used for animations. Still, it might give interesting
results on still images.
.SH EXAMPLE
Check this out: Save your favourite model's picture from something like
alt.binaries.pictures.supermodels (ok, or from any other picture source),
convert it to ppm, and process it e.g. like this, assuming the picture is 
800x600 pixels:
.EX
  # take the upper half, and leave it like it is
  pnmcut 0 0 800 300 cs.ppm >upper.ppm

  # take the lower half, flip it upside down, dim it and distort it a little
  pnmcut 0 300 800 300 cs.ppm | pnmflip -tb | ppmdim 0.7 | 
     ppmshift 10 >lower.ppm

  # and concatenate the two pieces
  pnmcat -tb upper.ppm lower.ppm >newpic.ppm
.EE
The resulting picture looks like the image being reflected on a water 
surface with slight ripples.
.SH SEE ALSO
ppm(5), pnmcut(1), pnmflip(1), ppmdim(1), pnmcat(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993 by Frank Neumann
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
