.TH ppmtopgm 1 "10 April 2000"
.IX ppmtopgm
.SH NAME
ppmtopgm - convert a portable pixmap into a portable graymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtopgm
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input.  Produces a portable graymap as
output.  The output is a "black and white" rendering of the original
image, as in a black and white photograph.  The quantization formula
used is .299 r + .587 g + .114 b.
.PP
Note that although there is a
.B pgmtoppm
program, it is not necessary for simple conversions from pgm to ppm ,
because any ppm program can read pgm (and pbm ) files automatically.
.B pgmtoppm
is for colorizing a pgm file.  Also, see
.B ppmtorgb3
.IX ppmtorgb3
for a different way of converting color to gray.  And 
.B ppmdist 
generates a grayscale image from a color image, but in a way that makes it
easy to differentiate the original colors, not necessarily a way that looks
like a black and white photograph.

.SH QUOTE
.nf
Cold-hearted orb that rules the night
Removes the colors from our sight
Red is gray, and yellow white
But we decide which is right
And which is a quantization error.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgmtoppm (1), ppmtorgb3 (1), rgb3toppm (1), ppmdist (1), ppm (5), pgm (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
