.TH ppmtoilbm 1 "31 October 1993"
.IX ppmtoilbm
.SH NAME
ppmtoilbm - convert a portable pixmap into an ILBM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtoilbm
.RB [ -maxplanes | -mp
.IR N ]
.RB [ -fixplanes | -fp
.IR N ]
.RB [ -ham6 | -ham8 ]
.RB [ -dcbits | -dcplanes r g b ]
.RB [ -normal | -hamif | -hamforce | -24if | -24force |
.RB -dcif | -dcforce | -cmaponly ]
.RB [ -ecs | -aga ]
.RB [ -compress | -nocompress ]
.RB [ -cmethod
.IR type ]
.RB [ -map ppmfile ]
.RB [ -savemem ]
.RB [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input.
Produces an ILBM file as output.
.IX "ILBM"
Supported ILBM types are:
.TP
Normal ILBMs with 1-16 planes.
.TP
Amiga HAM with 3-16 planes.
.IX "Amiga"
.IX "HAM"
.TP
24 bit.
.TP
Color map (BMHD + CMAP chunk only, nPlanes = 0).
.TP
Unofficial direct color.
1-16 planes for each color component.
.TP
Chunks written:
BMHD, CMAP, CAMG (only for HAM), BODY (not for colormap files)
unofficial DCOL chunk for direct color ILBM
.SH OPTIONS
Options marked with (*) can be prefixed with a "no",
e.g. "-nohamif". All options can be abbreviated to
their shortest unique prefix.
.TP
.B -maxplanes | -mp n
(default 5, minimum 1, maximum 16)
Maximum planes to write in a normal ILBM.  If the pixmap
does not fit into <n> planes, ppmtoilbm writes a HAM file
(if -hamif is used), a 24bit file (if -24if is used) or a
direct color file (if -dcif is used) or aborts with an error.
.TP
.B -fixplanes | -fp n
(min 1, max 16)
If a normal ILBM is written, it will have exactly <n> planes.
.TP
.B -hambits | -hamplanes n
(default 6, min 3, max 16)
Select number of planes for HAM picture.  The current Amiga
hardware supports 6 and 8 planes, so for now you should
only use this values.
.TP
.B -normal (default)
Turns off -hamif/-24if/-dcif, -hamforce/-24force/-dcforce and
-cmaponly.  Also sets compression type to byterun1.
.TP
.B -hamif (*)
.TP
.B -24if (*)
.TP
.B -dcif (*)
Write a HAM/24bit/direct color file if the pixmap does not
fit into <maxplanes> planes.
.TP
.B -hamforce (*)
.TP
.B -24force (*)
.TP
.B -dcforce (*)
Write a HAM/24bit/direct color file.
.TP
.B -dcbits | -dcplanes r g b
(default 5, min 1, max 16).
Select number of bits for red, green & blue in a direct
color ILBM.
.TP
.B -ecs (default)
Shortcut for: -hamplanes 6 -maxplanes 5
.TP
.B -aga
.TP
.B Shortcut for: -hamplanes 8 -maxplanes 8
.TP
.B -ham6
.TP
.B Shortcut for: -hamplanes 6 -hamforce
.TP
.B -ham8
Shortcut for: -hamplanes 8 -hamforce
.TP
.B -compress (*) (default)
.TP
.B -cmethod none|byterun1
Compress the BODY chunk.  The default compression method is byterun1.
Compression requires building the ILBM image in memory; turning compression
off allows stream-writing of the image, but the resulting file will usually
be 30% to 50% larger.  Another alternative is the -savemem option, this will
keep memory requirements for compression at a minimum, but is very slow.
.TP
.B -map ppmfile
Write a normal ILBM using the colors in <ppmfile> as the
colormap. The colormap file also determines the number of
planes, a -maxplanes or -fixplanes option is ignored.
.TP
.B -cmaponly
Write a colormap file: only BMHD and CMAP chunks, no BODY
chunk, nPlanes = 0.
.TP
.B -savemem
See the -compress option.
.SH "BUGS"
HAM pictures will always get a grayscale colormap; a real color selection
algorithm might give better results.  On the other hand, this allows row-by-row
operation on HAM images, and all HAM images of the same depth (no. of planes)
share a common colormap, which is useful for building HAM animations.
.SH "REFERENCES"
Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual - Devices (3rd Ed.)
.br
Addison Wesley, ISBN 0-201-56775-X
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppm(5), ilbmtoppm(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.br
Modified October 1993 by Ingo Wilken (Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.

