.TH ppmtopcx 1 "12 December 1994"
.IX ppmtopcx

.SH NAME
ppmtopcx - convert a portable pixmap into a PCX file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtopcx
.RB [ -24bit ]
.RB [ -packed ]
.RB [ -xpos=\fIcols ]
.RB [ -ypos=\fIrows ]
.RI [ ppmfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PPM image as input.  Produces a PCX file as output.
.IX PCX
The type of the PCX file depends on the number of colors in the pixmap:
.TP
16 colors or less:
1 bit/pixel, 1-4 planes.
.TP
256 colors or less:
8 bits/pixel, 1 plane, colormap at the end of the file.
.TP
More than 256 colors:
24bit truecolor file (8 bits/pixel, 3 planes).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -24bit
Produce a 24bit truecolor file, even if the pixmap has 256 colors or less.
.TP
.B -packed
Use "packed pixel" format for files with 16 colors or less: 1, 2, or 4
bits/pixel, 1 plane.
.TP
.B -xpos=\fIcols
.TP
.B -ypos=\fIrows
These options set the position of the image in some field (e.g. on a screen)
in columns to the right of the left edge and rows below the top edge.
The PCX format contains image position information.  Don't confuse this
with the position of an area of interest within the image.  For example,
using
.B pnmpad
to add a 10 pixel left border to an image and then converting that image to PCX
with xpos = 0 is not the same as converting the original image to PCX and
setting xpos = 10.

The values may be from -32767 to 32768.

The default for each is zero.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pcxtoppm (1), 
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (C) 1994 by Ingo Wilken (Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.br
Based on previous work by Michael Davidson.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
