.TH ppmtobmp 1 "13 June 2000"
.IX ppmtobmp
.SH NAME
ppmtobmp \- convert a portable pixmap into a BMP file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtobmp
.RB [ \-windows ]
.RB [ \-os2 ]
.RB [ \-bpp=\fIbits_per_pixel ]
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input.
Produces a Microsoft Windows or OS/2 BMP file as output.
.IX BMP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix and you
can use a double dash in place of the single dash, GNU-style.
.TP
.B \-windows
Tells the program to produce a Microsoft Windows BMP file.
(This is the default.)
.TP
.B \-os2
Tells the program to produce an OS/2 BMP file.
(Before August 2000, this was the default).
.TP 
.B \-bpp
This determines how many bits per pixel you want the BMP file to contain.
Only 1, 4, 8, and 24 are possible.  By default, 
.B ppmtobmp
chooses the smallest number with which it can represent all the colors
in the input image.  If you specify a number too small to represent all
the colors in the input image, 
.B ppmtobmp
tells you and terminates.  You can use
.B ppmquant
or
.B ppmdither
to reduce the number of colors in the image.

.SH NOTES
To get a faithful reproduction of the input image, the maxval of the
input image must be 255.  If it is something else, 
.B ppmtobmp
the colors in the BMP file may be slightly different from the colors
in the input.

Windows icons are not BMP files.  Use
.B ppmtowinicon
to create those.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bmptoppm (1),
.BR ppmtowinicon (1),
.BR ppmquant (1),
.BR ppmdither (1),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1992 by David W. Sanderson.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without
.\" express or implied warranty.
