.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sgml2html.1
.\"
.TH SGML2HTML 1 "16 May 2000"
.SH NAME
sgml2html \- create HTML output from a LinuxDoc DTD SGML source file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgml2html [generic-option...] [--split
.I 0|1|2
.B ] [--toc
.I 0|1|2
.B ] [--dosnames] [--imagebuttons]
.IR file [.sgml]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sgml2html
is an old and obsoleted form of the html converter command
of LinuxDoc-Tools.  It is recommended to switch the new form
.B linuxdoc -B html
now.
This converts a LinuxDoc DTD SGML source file to HTML output.
Output will appear in the top level file
.I file.html
and
.I file-n.html
for each section, where
.I file
is the name of the SGML source file and
.I n
is the section name.
.LP
The attribute/value pair "output=html" is set for conditionals.
.SH OPTIONS
.B sgml2html accepts all the generic options described in
.BR linuxdoc (1),
and the following specific options:
.IP "--split, -s"
What level to split source documents.  0 = don't split, 1 = split by
major sections, 2 = split by subsections.
.IP "--toc, -T"
What level to generate toc.
  0 = don't generate toc at all,
  1 = includes major sections(/chapters/parts),
  2 = includes subsections.
.IP "--dosnames, -h"
Use ".htm" rather than ".html" as the extension of
.IP "--imagebuttons, -I"
Use the "next", "previous", and "contents" arrow image icons included
in /usr/share/linuxdoc-tools as navigation buttons.
.IP "--footer, -F"
Use the specified file as the footer in each resulted html file.
Default footer is just plain

.nh
.nf
.ad l
 </BODY>\\n </HTML>\\n
.hy
.fi
.IP "--header, -H"
Use the specified file as the top part of the header in each resulted
html file. Note this is not the full part of the header.
(i.e. the title and the links (next,previous,contents) in the default
header are retained. Default is

.nh
.nf
.ad l
 <!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2 Final//EN">\\n
 <HTML>\\n <HEAD>\\n
.hy
.fi
.IP file
The SGML source file, named either
.I file
or
.IR file.sgml .
.SH FILES
Many files and executables in /usr/share/linuxdoc-tools and /usr/bin are used.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written by Greg Hankins <greg.hankins@cc.gatech.edu>, and
Cees de Groot <cg@cdegroot.com> for SGML-Tools (v1).
Currently maintained by Taketoshi Sano <sano@debian.org> for Linuxdoc-Tools.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linuxdoc (1),
.BR sgml2info (1),
.BR sgml2latex (1),
.BR sgml2lyx (1),
.BR sgml2rtf (1),
.BR sgml2txt (1),
.BR sgmlcheck (1).
