.TH tgatoppm 1 "02 April 2000"
.IX tgatoppm
.SH NAME
tgatoppm \- convert TrueVision Targa file into a portable pixmap

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tgatoppm
\fR[\fB--alphaout=\fR{\fIalpha-filename\fR,\fB-\fR}]
.RB [ --headerdump ]
.I tga-filename


.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a TrueVision Targa file as input.
.IX TrueVision
.IX Targa
Produces a portable pixmap as output.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --alphaout= alpha-filename
.B tgatoppm 
creates a PGM (portable graymap) file containing the alpha channel
values in the input image.  If the input image doesn't contain an alpha
channel, the 
.I alpha-filename
file contains all zero (transparent) alpha values.  If you don't specify
.BR --alphaout ,
.B tgatoppm
does not generate an alpha file, and if the input image has an alpha channel,
.B tgatoppm
simply discards it.

If you specify
.B -
as the filename, 
.B tgatoppm
writes the alpha output to Standard Output and discards the image.

See 
.BR pnmcomp (1)
for one way to use the alpha output file.
.TP
.B --headerdump
Causes the header information to be dumped to stderr.
.PP
All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.
.SH BUGS
Should really be in PNM, not PPM.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ppmtotga (1), 
.BR pnmcomp (1),
.BR ppm (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Partially based on tga2rast, version 1.0, by Ian J. MacPhedran.

Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
