.TH winicontoppm 1 "22 May 2000"
.IX winicontoppm
.SH NAME
winicontoppm \- convert a Windows .ico file into 1 or more portable pixmap
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B winicontoppm
.RI [ \-writeands ]
.RI [ \-allicons|\-bestqual ]
.RI [ \-multippm ]
.RI [ \-verbose ]
.RI [ iconfile ]
.RI [ ppmdestfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a Microsoft Windows .ico file, converts it to one or more ppms.

A Windows icon contains 1 or more images, at different resolutions
and color depths.  Each image has an 'and' mask, which contains transparancy
data. 

By default, the output goes to Standard Output.  If you specify
.IR ppmdestfile ,
output goes into one or more files named as follows.  If it's just one
file (i.e. you specify the 
.B -multippm 
option or don't specify 
.BR -allicons ), 
the file specification is 
.IB ppmdestfile .ppm \fR.
If it's multiple files, their file specifications are
.IB ppmdestfile "_1.ppm" \fR,
.IB ppmdestfile "_2.ppm" \fR,
etc.

When you specify the 
.B -writeands
option, the filenames above are modified to include the string
.B xor
as in 
.IB ppmdestfile _xor.ppm
or
.IB ppmdestfile _xor_1.ppm \fR.

.B winicontoppm
can convert images with 1, 4, 8, 24 or 32 bits per pixel (bpp).

.IX WINICON
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-writeands
For each icon written, also write the 'and' (transparancy) mask as a
seperate PBM file.  It's name is of the form
.IB ppmdestfile _and.pbm
or
.IB ppmdestfile _and_1.pbm \fR.
.TP
.B \-allicons
Extract all images from the .ico file.
.TP
.B \-bestqual
Extract only the best quality (largest, then highest bpp) image from the .ico file.
.TP
.B \-multippm
Write all ppms to a single file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ppmtowinicon (1),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2000, 2003 by Lee Benfield.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without
.\" express or implied warranty.
