.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2018 Sergio Durigan Junior <sergiodj@sergiodj.net>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.TH IPTUNNEL 8 "version 1.60" "February 2018"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME

iptunnel \- Create and manage IP tunnels

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iptunnel
{ add | change | del | show } [ NAME ]
  [ mode { ipip | gre | sit } ] [ remote ADDR ] [ local ADDR ]
  [ [i|o]seq ] [ [i|o]key KEY ] [ [i|o]csum ]
  [ ttl TTL ] [ tos TOS ] [ nopmtudisc ] [ dev PHYS_DEV ]

.B iptunnel
\-V | \-\-version

\fBWhere\fP: NAME := STRING
       ADDR := { IP_ADDRESS | any }
       TOS  := { NUMBER | inherit }
       TTL  := { 1..255 | inherit }
       KEY  := { DOTTED_QUAD | NUMBER }

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBiptunnel\fP can be used to add, change, delete and show IP tunnels
on the machine.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B help
Show the help text.

.TP
.B show
List existing IP tunnels.

.TP
.B { add | change | del } [ NAME ]
Specify an action (\fBadd\fP, \fBchange\fP or \fBdelete\fP an IP
tunnel) to be executed by \fBiptunnel\fP on the tunnel named
\fBNAME\fP, which must be a string.  You must specify one action.

.TP
.B mode PROTOCOL
Specify the \fBPROTOCOL\fP to be used for the IP tunnel.  It can be
\fBipip\fP for TCP/IP, \fBgre\fP for Cisco GRE tunnel (RFCs 1701 and
1702), or \fBsit\fP for IPv6-in-IPv4 tunneling.

.TP
.B remote ADDR
Set the remote (i.e., destination) address of the tunnel.  \fBADDR\fP
must be an IP address or the word \fBany\fP.

.TP
.B local ADDR
Set the local (i.e., source) address of the tunnel.  \fBADDR\fP must
be an IP address or the word \fBany\fP.

.TP
.B iseq
Require that all incoming packets are serialized.  Only applicable for
\fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B oseq
Enable serialization (sequencing) for all outgoing packets.  Only
applicable for \fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B ikey KEY
Specify the input key for the Cisco GRE tunnel.  \fBKEY\fP must be
either in dotted quad (dotted decimal) or a number.  Only applicable
for \fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B okey KEY
Same as \fBikey\fP, but set the output key instead.  Only applicable
for \fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B icsum
Require that all incoming packets have the correct checksum.  Only
applicable for \fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B ocsum
Calculate checksums for all outgoing packets.  Only applicable for
\fBGRE\fP tunnels.

.TP
.B ttl TTL
Specify the \fBTime-To-Live\fP value for the IP tunnel.  \fBTTL\fP
must be a value between \fB1\fP and \fB255\fP, or the word
\fBinherit\fP, which causes the field to be copied from the original
IP header.

.TP
.B tos TOS
Specify the \fBType-Of-Service\fP value for the IP tunnel.  \fBTOS\fP
must be a value between \fB1\fP and \fB255\fP, or the word
\fBinherit\fP, which causes the field to be copied from the original
IP header.

.TP
.B nopmtudisc
Disable \fBPath MTU Discovery\fP on this tunnel.  Note that a fixed
\fBttl\fP is incompatible with this option.

.TP
.B dev PHYS_DEV
Bind the tunnel to the device \fBPHYS_DEV\fP.

.SH HOMEPAGE

\fB<https://sourceforge.net/projects/net-tools/>\fP

.SH AUTHORS

This manpage was written by Sergio Durigan Junior <sergiodj (at)
sergiodj (dot) net>.  A few parts were inspired by
\fBip-tunnel(1)\fP's manpage.

.PP
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published
by the Free Software Foundation.
