.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt <u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>, Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:19:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" 
.TH INTRO 6 "22. Mai 1996" "Linux" "Spiele und Demonstrationen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
intro \- Einführung in 'Spiele und Demonstrationen'
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Dieses Kapitel beschreibt all die Spiele und lustigen kleinen
Programme auf diesem System.
.SH AUTOREN
Sehen Sie bitten in den Kopf der jeweiligen Handbuchseite nach
Autor(en) und Copyright-Vermerk.  Bitte beachten Sie, dass diese von
Seite zu Seite unterschiedlich sein können!
