.\" $Revision: 2.0 $
.TH GET-NEWS 8
.SH NAME
get-news - Debian Suck front end
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I get-news
[
.BI
sitename
]
[
.BI \-h
]
[
.BI \-outgoingfile
filename
]
[
.BI \-userid
userid
]
[
.BI \-password
password
]
[
.BI \-noauth
]
[
.BI \-port
port
]
[
.BI \-server
sitename
]
[
.BI \-q
]
[
.BI \-getonly
]
[
.BI \-postonly
]
[
.BI \-timestamp
]
[
.BI \-verbose
]

sitename

The name of the site get-news should connect. If this parameter is
specified, it will be used for multiple purposes, setting:

 \- the DNS name of the NNTP host which get-news will connect to
download and upload articles

 \- the suffix for some configuration files get-news will use
(sucknewsrc, active-ignore, suckkillfile)

 \- the news feed name (name of the file in /var/spool/news/outgoing
which contain list of the articles to be send)

For example, running the command get-news news.provider.site
causes the script to contact news.provider.site, send messages listed
in /var/spool/news/outgoing/news.provider.site (according to the feed
of this name defined in /etc/news/newsfeeds) and use
/etc/suck/sucknewsrc.news.provider.site as list of newsgroups,
/etc/suck/suckkillfile.news.provider.site as killfile and (in case -A
or -AL is specified in get-news.conf) suit newsgroup list to
/etc/suck/active-ignore.news.provider.site.

When the sitename parameter is missing (like when get-news is run
without parameters), get-news uses parameters from get-news.conf
(remoteserver to specify the host, outgoingfile to specify the feed)
and no-suffix configuration files (sucknewsrc, active-ignore,
suckkillfile).

\-outgoingfile filename

This option tells get-news to use an alternate remote server outgoing
articles filename, instead of the default, the remote server name.

\-userid userid

\-password password

These two options let you specify a userid and password, if your NNTP server
requires them.

\-noauth

This option tells get-news to not send userid and password,
even if they are specified in /etc/suck/get-news.conf.

\-port port

This option let you specify a port number, if your NNTP server has
a non standard one.

\-server sitename

This option tells get-news to use sitename as your local NNTP server,
instead of the default, localhost.

\-q

Be quiet.
Do not display the BPS and article count messages during download.
Multiple \-q's makes get\-news shut up

\-getonly

Only get new news, don't post anything outgoing.

\-postonly

Only post outgoing news, don't get anything.

\-timestamp
Add timestamps to the get-news.log and verbose output.

\-verbose
Give more messages about what get-news is doing.  Specified multiple times,
debugging output is enabled.

.SH GET-NEWS.CONF
.PP
Suck looks for a file
.I get-news.conf
in /etc/suck to initialize some defaults and set some options that are not
available on the command line.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
suck(1), testhost(1), rpost(1), lpost(1).
