.TH fitstopnm 1 "20 September 89"
.IX fitstopnm
.SH NAME
fitstopnm - convert a FITS file into a portable anymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fitstopnm
.RB [ -image
.IR N ]
.RB [ -noraw ]
.RB [ -scanmax ]
.RB [ -printmax ]
.RB [ -min 
.IR f ]
.RB [ -max
.IR f ]
.RI [ FITSfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a FITS file as input.
.IX FITS
Produces a portable pixmap if the FITS file consists of 3 image planes
(NAXIS = 3 and NAXIS3 = 3), a portable graymap if the FITS file
consists of 2 image planes (NAXIS = 2), or whenever the 
.B \-image 
flag is specified.
The results may need to be flipped top for bottom; if so, just
pipe the output through
.B pnmflip -tb.
.IX pnmflip
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B -image
option is for FITS files with three axes.
The assumption is that the third axis is for multiple images,
and this option lets you select which one you want.
.PP
Flags 
.B -min
and 
.B -max 
can be used to override the min and max values as read from the FITS
header or the image data if no DATAMIN and DATAMAX keywords are found.
Flag
.B -scanmax
can be used to force the program to scan the data even when DATAMIN
and DATAMAX are found in the header. If 
.B -printmax 
is specified, the program will just print the min and max values and
quit.
Flag
.B -noraw
can be used to force 
the program to produce an ASCII portable anymap.
.PP
The program will tell what kind of anymap is writing.
All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.
.SH REFERENCES
FITS stands for Flexible Image Transport System.  A full description
can be found in Astronomy & Astrophysics Supplement Series 44 (1981),
page 363.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pnmtofits(1), pgm(5), pnmflip(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer, with modifications by 
Daniel Briggs (dbriggs@nrao.edu) and Alberto
Accomazzi (alberto@cfa.harvard.edu).
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
