.TH palmtopnm 1 "15 December 2000"
.IX palmtopnm
.SH NAME
palmtopnm - convert a Palm pixmap into a portable anymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B palmtopnm
.RB [ -verbose ] 
.RB [ -rendition 
.IR N ] 
.RB [ -showhist ] 
.br
.RB [ -forceplain ] 
.RI [ pnmfile ]
.br
.B palmtopnm
.B -transparent 
.RB [ -verbose ] 
.RI [ pnmfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a Palm pixmap as input, from stdin or 
.IR pnmfile .
Produces either a portable pixmap as output, or writes the value of
the transparent color in the Palm pixmap to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -verbose
Display various interesting information about the input file and process.
.TP
.B -transparent
If the Palm pixmap has a transparent color set, the RGB value for that
color will be written to stdout as in the form \fC#RRGGBB\fR, where
\fCRR\fR, \fCGG\fR, and \fCBB\fR are two-digit hexadecimal numbers
indicating a value between 0 and 255.  If no transparent color is set
in the bitmap, nothing will be output.  No additional output will be
generated; no anymap will be output.
.TP
.B -rendition N
Palm pixmaps may contain several different renditions of the same
pixmap, with different depths.  By default, 
.B palmtopnm 
operates on the first rendition (rendition number 1) in the pixmap.
This switch allows you to operate on a different rendition.  The value
must be between 1 and the number of renditions in the pixmap,
inclusive.
.TP
.B -showhist
Writes a histogram of colors in the input file to stderr.
.TP
.B -forceplain
Force the output anymap to be in ASCII 'plain' netpbm format.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmtopalm (1), 
.BR pnm(5)

.SH BUGS
An additional compression format, "packbits," has been added with
PalmOS 4.0.  This package should be updated to handle it.

You currently cannot generate an alpha mask if the Palm pixmap has a
transparent color.  However, you can still do this with
.B ppmcolormask
with a Netpbm pipe similar to:

.B palmtopnm pixmap.palm | ppmcolormask `palmtopnm -transparent pixmap.palm`

.SH AUTHORS
This program was originally written as Tbmptopnm.c, by Ian Goldberg.
It was heavily modified by Bill Janssen to add color, compression, and
transparency function.
.br
Copyright 1995-2001 by Ian Goldberg and Bill Janssen.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
.\"
.\" This man-page was derived from pnmtorast.1 by Jef Poskanzer
