.TH pamoil 1 "25 June 2001"
.IX pamoil
.SH NAME
pamoil - turn a PAM image into an oil painting

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pamoil
.RB [ -n
.IR N ]
.RI [ pamfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a Netpbm image as input.
Does an "oil transfer", and writes the same type of Netpbm image as output.
.IX "oil transfer"
.PP
The oil transfer is described in "Beyond Photography" by Holzmann,
chapter 4, photo 7.
It's a sort of localized smearing.

The smearing works like this: First, assume a grayscale image.  For
each pixel in the image,
.B pamoil
looks at a square neighborhood around it.  
.B pamoil
determines what is the most common pixel intensity in the
neighborhood, and puts a pixel of that intensity into the output in
the same position as the input pixel.

For color images, or any arbitrary multi-channel image, 
.B pamoil
computes each channel (e.g. red, green, and blue) separately the same
way as the grayscale case above.

At the edges of the image, where the regular neighborhood would run off
the edge of the image, 
.B pamoil
uses a clipped neighborhood.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -n \fIsize
This is the size of the neighborhood used in the smearing.  The neighborhood
is this many pixels in all four directions.

The default is 3.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgmbentley (1), 
.BR ppmrelief (1), 
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Based on pgmoil Copyright (C) 1990 by Wilson Bent (whb@hoh-2.att.com)
.PP
Modified to ppm by Chris Sheppard, June 25, 2001
.PP
Modified to pnm, using pam functions, by Bryan Henderson June 28, 2001.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
