.TH pamstretch 1 "11 November 2001"
.IX pamstretch
.SH NAME
pamstretch - scale up a PNM or PAM image by interpolating between pixels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pamstretch
.RB [ -xscale=\fIX\fR ]
.RB [ -yscale=\fIY\fR ]
.br
.RB [ -blackedge ]
.RB [ -dropedge ]
.I N
.RI [ infile ]

You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can use
two hyphens instead of one.  You can separate an option name from its value
with white space instead of an equals sign.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pamstretch 
scales up pictures by integer values, either vertically, horizontally,
or both.
.B pamstretch 
differs from
.B pnmscale
and
.B pnmenlarge
in that when it inserts the additional rows and columns, instead of
making the new row or column a copy of its neighbor,
.B pamstretch
makes the new row or column an interpolation between its neighbors.  In some
images, this produces better looking output.
.PP
To scale up to non-integer pixel sizes, e.g. 2.5, try
.BR pamstretch-gen (1)
instead.

Options let you select alternative methods of dealing with the
right/bottom edges of the picture.  Since the interpolation is done
between the top-left corners of the scaled-up pixels, it's not obvious
what to do with the right/bottom edges.  The default behaviour is to
scale those up without interpolation (more precisely, the right edge
is only interpolated vertically, and the bottom edge is only
interpolated horizontally), but there are two other possibilities,
selected by the 
.B blackedge
and 
.B dropedge
options.


.SH PARAMETERS

The 
.I N
parameter is the scale factor.  It is valid only if you 
.I don't
specify
.B -xscale
or 
.BR -yscale .
In that case, 
.B pamstretch
scales in both dimensions and by the scale factor 
.IR N .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -xscale=\fIX
This is the horizontal scale factor.  If you don't specify this, but do
specify a vertical scale factor, the horizontal scale factor is 1. 

.TP
.B -yscale=\fIY
This is the vertical scale factor.  If you don't specify this, but do
specify a horizontal scale factor, the vertical scale factor is 1. 

.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B -blackedge
interpolate to black at right/bottom edges.
.TP
.B -dropedge
drop one (source) pixel at right/bottom edges. This is arguably more
logical than the default behaviour, but it means producing output
which is a slightly odd size.

.SH BUGS
Usually produces fairly ugly output for PBMs. For most PBM input
you'll probably want to reduce the `noise' first using something like
.BR pnmnlfilt (1).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pamstretch-gen (1),
.BR pnmenlarge (1),
.BR pnmscale (1),
.BR pnmnlfilt (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Russell Marks (russell.marks@ntlworld.com).
.\" Copying policy: GNU GPL version 2 or later
