.TH pnmmontage 1 "31 December 2000"
.IX pnmmontage
.SH NAME
pnmmontage \- create a montage of portable anymaps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pnmmontage
.RB [ \-? | \-help ]
.RB [ \-header=\fIheaderfile ]
.RB [ \-quality=\fIn ]
.RB [ \-prefix=\fIprefix ]
.RB [ \-0 | \-1 | \-2 | ... | \-9 ]
.RI pnmfile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Packs images of differing sizes into a minimum-area composite image,
optionally producing a C header file with the locations of the subimages
within the composite image.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.B \-?, \-help
Displays a (very) short usage message.
.TP
.B \-header
Tells
.B pnmmontage
to write a C header file of the locations of the original images within
the packed image.  Each original image generates four #defines within
the packed file: xxxX, xxxY, xxxSZX, and xxxSZY, where xxx is the name
of the file, converted to all uppercase.  The #defines OVERALLX and
OVERALLY are also produced, specifying the total size of the montage
image.
.TP
.B \-prefix
Tells
.B pnmmontage
to use the specified prefix on all of the #defines it generates.
.TP 
.B \-quality
Before attempting to place the subimages,
.B pnmmontage
will calculate a minimum possible area for the montage; this is either
the total of the areas of all the subimages, or the width of the widest
subimage times the height of the tallest subimage, whichever is greater.
.B pnmmontage
then initiates a problem-space search to find the best packing; if it
finds a solution that is (at least) as good as the minimum area times
the quality as a percent, it will break out of the search.  Thus,
.B -q 100
will find the best possible solution; however, it may take a very long
time to do so.  The default is
.B -q 200.
.TP
.B \-0, \-1, ... \-9
These options control the quality at a higher level than
.B -q;
.B \-0
is the worst quality (literally pick the first solution found), while
.B \-9
is the best quality (perform an exhaustive search of problem space
for the absolute best packing).  The higher the number, the slower
the computation.  The default is
.B \-5.
.SH NOTES
Using
.B \-9
is excessively slow on all but the smallest image sets.
If the anymaps differ in maxvals, then pnmmontage will pick the smallest
maxval which is evenly divisible by each of the maxvals of the original
images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmcat (1),
.BR pnmindex (1),
.BR pnm (5),
.BR pam (5),
.BR pbm (5),
.BR pgm (5),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2000 by Ben Olmstead.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without
.\" express or implied warranty.
