.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.TH PPMFADE 1 "April 1, 2000" 1
.SH NAME
ppmfade \- generate a transition between two image files using special effects.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmfade
[
.B -f 
.I first.ppm
] [
.B -l 
.I last.ppm
] [
.BR -mix | -spread | -shift | -relief | -oil | -edge | -bentley | -block
] [
.B -base 
.I name
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program generates a transition between either two input images or
between one input image and black.  You can use the 30 intermediate
images generated to show a smooth transition between segments of a
movie.  The input and output images are in the Portable Pixmap (PPM)
format.  If you specify both input images, they should both be the
same size.  If you want to fade from black to an image, specify
only the last image.  If you want to fade from an image to black,
specify only the first image.  
.B ppmfade 
names the resulting image files
.IB base . nnnn 
.BR .ppm ,
where
.I nnnn 
is a number varying between 0001 and 0030 and 
.I base
is what you specify with via the 
.B -base
option (default
.BR fade ).

Another way to convert by steps from one image to another is morphing.
You can use 
.B xmorph
to do that.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f first.ppm
This is the image file (PPM format) to be used at the beginning of the
transition.  If not specified, the fade will start from black.
.TP
.B -l last.ppm
This is the image file (PPM format) to be used at the ending of the
transition.  If not specified, the fade will end with black.
.TP
.B -mix
The two images are superimposed with the brightness of the first image
decreasing from full to none and the brightness of the final image
increasing from none to full.  The transition is quadratic in brightness
with faster transition in the beginning and slower at the end.
.TP
.B -spread
The pixels in the first image will be moved (spread) further and further
from their original location and then moved into the proper location in
the final image.  This is the default transition.
.TP
.B -shift
The pixels in the first image will be shifted further and further horizontally
from their original location and then moved into the proper location in
the final image.
.TP
.B -relief
The first image is faded to a Laplacian relief filtered version of the
first image.  This is then faded to a Laplacian relief filtered version
of the second image and finally faded to the final image.
.TP
.B -oil
The first image is faded to an "oil transfer" version of the first image.
This is then faded to an "oil transfer" version of the second image and
finally faded to the final image.
.TP
.B -edge
The first image is faded to an edge detected version of the first image.
This is then faded to an edge detected version of the second image and
finally faded to the final image.
.TP
.B -bentley
The first image is faded to a "Bentley Effect" version of the first image.
This is then faded to a "Bentley Effect" version of the second image and
finally faded to the final image.
.TP
.B -block
The first image is defocused to small blocks.  The small blocks are converted
to match a defocused version of the last image.  The block version of the last
image is then focused to the final image.
.TP
.BI -base name
This forms part of the output filenames, as described above.
.TP

.SH EXAMPLES
.B ppmfade -f teapot.ppm -l pyr.ppm
.sp
Fade from teapot.ppm to pyr.ppm generating fade.0001.ppm to fade.0030.ppm using
the "spread" transition.
.sp
.B ppmfade -l teapot.ppm
.sp
Fade from black to teapot.ppm generating fade.0001.ppm to fade.0030.ppm.
.sp
.B ppmfade -f teapot.ppm -base end
.sp
Fade from teapot.ppm to black generating end.0001.ppm to end.0030.ppm.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tontsc (1),
.BR sgifade (1),
.BR smart_vfr (1),
.BR xmorph (1),  
.BR ppm (5),

.SH AUTHOR
.br
Wesley C. Barris (wesb@msc.edu)
.br
Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
.br
Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
