.TH ppmlabel 1 "14 June 1995"
.IX ppmlabel
.SH NAME
ppmlabel \- add text to a portable pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nh
.B ppmlabel
.RB [ \-angle
.IR angle ]
'in +9n
.RB [ \-background
.B transparent
|
.IR colour ]
.RB [ \-colour
.IR colour ]
.RB [ \-file
.IR filename ]
.RB [ \-size
.IR textsize ]
.RB [ \-text
.I 'text       
.IR string' ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR column ]
.RB [ \-y
.IR row ] " ... "
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.in -9n
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ppmlabel
uses the text drawing facilities of
.B ppmdraw
to add text to a portable pixmap.  The location, size, baseline angle,
colour of the text and background colour (if any) are controlled by
command line arguments.  The text can be specified on the command line or
read from files.  Any number of separate text strings can be
added by one invocation of
.BR ppmlabel ,
limited only by the maximum length of the command line.
.PP
If no 
.I ppmfile
is specified,
.B ppmdraw
reads its input pixmap from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
The arguments on the
.B ppmlabel
command line are not options in the strict sense; they are
commands which control the placement and appearance of the
text being added to the input pixmap.  They are executed left to right,
and any number of arguments may appear.
.PP
All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.
.TP 10
.BI \-angle " angle"
Sets the angle of the baseline of subsequent text.
.I angle
is specified as an integral number of degrees, measured
counterclockwise from the row axis of the pixmap.
.TP
.BI "\-background transparent | " colour
If the argument is
.BR `` transparent '',
text is drawn over the existing pixels in the pixmap.  If a
.I colour
is given (see the
.B \-colour
switch below for information on how to specify colours),
rectangles enclosing subsequent text are filled with that colour.
.TP
.BI \-colour " colour"
Sets the colour for subsequent text.
The 
.I colour
can be specified in five ways:
.RS 10
.TP 
\(bu
A name, assuming
that a pointer to an X11-style colour names file was compiled in.
.TP 
\(bu
An X11-style hexadecimal specifier: rgb:r/g/b, where r g and b are
each 1- to 4-digit hexadecimal numbers.
.TP 
\(bu
An X11-style decimal specifier: rgbi:r/g/b, where r g and b are
floating point numbers between 0 and 1.
.TP 
\(bu
For backwards compatibility, an old-X11-style hexadecimal
number: #rgb, #rrggbb, #rrrgggbbb, or #rrrrggggbbbb.
.TP 
\(bu
For backwards compatibility, a triplet of numbers
separated by commas: r,g,b, where r g and b are
floating point numbers between 0 and 1.
(This style was added before MIT came up with the similar rgbi style.)
.RE
.TP
.BI \-file " filename"
Reads text from the file
.I filename
and draws it on successive lines.
.TP
.BI \-size " textsize"
Sets the height of the tallest characters above the baseline to
.I textsize
pixels.
.TP
.BI \-text " 'text string'"
Draws the given text string (which must be quoted if it contains
spaces).  The location for subsequent text is advanced by
1.75 times the current
.IR textsize ,
which allows drawing multiple lines of text in a reasonable
manner without specifying the position of each line.
.TP
.BI \-x " column"
Sets the column at which subsequent text will be left justified.
Depending on the shape of the first character, the actual text
may begin a few pixels to the right of this point.
.TP
.BI \-y " row"
Sets the row which will form the baseline of subsequent text.
Characters with descenders, such as ``y'', will extend below
this line.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Text strings are restricted to 7 bit ASCII.  The text font used by
.B ppmdraw
doesn't include definitions for 8 bit ISO 8859/1 characters.
.PP
When drawing multiple lines of text with a non-transparent
background, it should probably fill the space between the lines
with the background colour.  This is tricky to get right when the
text is rotated to a non-orthogonal angle.
.PP
The -size, -x, and -y options MUST precede the -text option specifying
the string they apply to, or they will be silently ignored in favor of
the defaults.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PD
.BR ppmmake (1),
.BR ppm (5)
.ne 10
.SH AUTHOR
.ce 2
Copyright (C) 1995 by John Walker (kelvin@fourmilab.ch)
WWW home page: http://www.fourmilab.ch/
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as
is'' without express or implied warranty.
