.TH ppmtomitsu 1 "29 Jan 1992"
.IX ppmtomitsu
.SH NAME
ppmtomitsu - convert a portable pixmap to a Mitsubishi S340-10 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtomitsu
.RB [-sharpness
.IR val ]
.RB [ -enlarge
.IR val ]
.RB [ -media
.IR string ]
.RB [ -copy
.IR val ]
.RB [ -dpi300 ]
.RB [ -tiny ]
.RI [ ppmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable pixmap as input and converts it into a format suitable
to be printed by a Mitsubishi S340-10 printer, or any other Mitsubishi
color sublimation printer.
.PP
The Mitsubishi S340-10 Color Sublimation printer supports 24bit color.
Images of the available sizes take so long to transfer that there is a
fast method, employing a lookuptable, that ppmtomitsu will use if there
is a maximum of 256 colors in the pixmap.
ppmtomitsu will try to position your image to the center of the paper,
and will rotate your image for you if xsize is larger than ysize.
If your image is larger than the media allows, ppmtomitsu will quit
with an error message. (We decided that the media were too expensive
to have careless users produce misprints.) 
Once data transmission has started, the job can't be stopped in a
sane way without resetting the printer.
The printer understands putting together images in the printers memory;
ppmtomitsu doesn't utilize this as pnmcat etc provide the same functionality
and let you view the result on-screen, too.
The S340-10 is the lowest common denominator printer; for higher
resolution printers there's the dpi300 option. The other printers also
support higher values for enlarge eg, but I don't think that's essential
enough to warrant a change in the program.
.TP
.BI -sharpness " 1-4"
 'sharpness' designation. Default is to use the current sharpness.
.TP
.BI -enlarge " 1-3"
Enlarge by a factor; Default is 1 (no enlarge)
.TP
.BI -media " A, A4, AS, A4S"
Designate the media you're using. Default is 1184 x 1350, which will fit
on any media. A is 1216 x 1350, A4 is 1184 x 1452, AS is 1216 x 1650 and 
A4S is 1184 x 1754. A warning: If you specify a different media than the
printer currently has, the printer will wait until you put in the correct
media or switch it off.
.TP
.BI -copy " 1-9"
The number of copies to produce. Default is 1.
.TP
.BI -dpi300
Double the number of allowed pixels for a S3600-30 Printer in S340-10
compatibility mode. (The S3600-30 has 300 dpi).
.TP
.BI -tiny
Memory-safing, but always slow. The printer will get the data line-by-line
in 24bit. It's probably a good idea to use this if your machine starts
paging a lot without this option.
.SH REFERENCES
Mitsubishi Sublimation Full Color Printer S340-10 Specifications of
Parallel Interface LSP-F0232F
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppmquant(1), pnmscale(1), ppm(5)
.SH BUGS
We didn't find any - yet. (Besides, they're called features anyway :-)
If you should find one, my email-adress is below.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1992, 93 by S.Petra Zeidler, MPIfR Bonn, Germany.
(spz@specklec.mpifr-bonn.mpg.de)
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
