.TH pstopnm 1 "28 June 2000"
.IX pstopnm
.SH NAME
pstopnm - convert a PostScript file into a portable anymap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pstopnm
.RB [ \-stdout ]
.RB [ \-forceplain ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-llx 
.IR s ] 
.RB [ \-lly 
.IR s ] 
.RB [ \-landscape ]
.RB [ \-portrait ]
.RB [ \-nocrop ]
.RB [ \-pbm 
.RB | \-pgm 
.RB | \-ppm ]
.RB [ \-urx 
.IR s ] 
.RB [ \-ury 
.IR s ] 
.RB [ \-verbose ]
.RB [ \-xborder
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-xmax
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-xsize
.IR f ]
.RB [ \-yborder
.IR f ]
.RB [ \-ymax
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-ysize
.IR n ]
.IR psfile [ \fB.ps ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PostScript file as input.
.IX PostScript
Produces PBM, PGM, or PPM files as output.
This program simply uses
.B GhostScript
to render a PostScript file with its PNM device drivers.  If you don't
have
.B GhostScript
installed (invoked by a 
.B gs
command), or the version you have installed was not built with the relevant
PNM device drivers, 
.B pstopnm
will fail.  You can see if you have the proper environment by issuing the
command
.B gs --help \fR.
If it responds and lists under "Available Devices" 
.BR pbm ,
.BR pbmraw , 
.BR pgm , 
.BR pgmraw , 
.BR pnm , 
.BR pnmraw , 
.BR ppm , 
or 
.BR ppmraw ,
you're in business. 

.B pstopnm
does not use the Netpbm libraries to generate the output files, so may 
not be entirely consistent with most Netpbm programs.

.IR psfile [ \fB.ps ]
is the name of the input file.  
.B .pstopnm
will add the 
.B ps
to the end of the name you specify if no file exists by the exact name
you specify, but one with 
.ps
added does.  Use
.B -
to indicate Standard Input.

If you use the 
.B -stdout 
option, 
.B pstopnm
outputs images of all the pages as a multi-image file to Standard
Output.  Otherwise, 
.B pstopnm
creates one file for each page in the Postscript document.  The files
are named as follows: If the input file is named
.BR psfile.ps ,
the name of the files will be
.BR psfile001.ppm , 
.BR psfile002.ppm , 
etc.  The filetype suffix is 
.BR .ppm ,
.BR .pgm ,
or
.BR .pbm ,
depending on which kind of output you choose with your invocation
options.  If the input file name does not end in
.BR .ps ,
the whole file name is used in the output file name.  For example,
if the input file is named 
.BR psfile.old ,
the output file name is
.BR psfile.old001.ppm ,
etc.

Note that the output file selection is inconsistent with most Netpbm
programs, because it does not default to Standard Output.  This is for
historical reasons, based on the fact that the Netpbm formats did not
always provide for a sequence of images in a single file.

.PP
Each output file contains the image of a rectangular part of the page
to which it pertains.  The selected area will always be centered in
the output file, and may have borders around it.  The image area to be
extracted from the PostScript file and rendered into a portable anymap
is defined by four numbers, the lower left corner and the upper right
corner x and y coordinates.  These coordinates are usually specified
by the BoundingBox comment in the PostScript file header, but they can
be overridden by the user by specifying one or more of the following
options:
.BR \-llx ,
.BR \-lly ,
.BR \-urx ,
and
.BR \-ury .
The presence and thickness of a border to be left around the image
area is controlled by the use of the options
.B \-xborder
and
.BR \-yborder .
If 
.B pstopnm 
does not find BoundingBox parameters in the input, and you don't
specify image area coordinates on the command line,
.B pstopnm
uses default values.  If your input is from Standard Input, 
.B pstopnm
does not use the BoundingBox parameters (due to the technical
difficulty of extracting that information and still feeding the file
to Ghostscript), so you either have to specify the image area
coordinates or take the default.

Unless you specify both output file width and height, via the
.B \-xsize 
and
.B \-ysize 
options, 
.B pstopnm 
maps the document into the output image by preserving its aspect
ratio.

It has been reported that on some Postscript Version 1 input, Ghostscript, 
and therefore
.BR pstopnm ,
produces no output.  To solve this problem, you can convert the file to 
Postscript Version 3 with the program
.BR ps2ps .
It is reported that the program
.B pstops
does not work.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-forceplain
forces the output file to be in plain (text) format.  Otherwise, it is
in raw (binary) format.  See 
.BR pbm (1), 
etc.
.TP
.B \-llx \fIbx
selects 
.I bx
as the lower left corner x coordinate (in inches).
.TP
.B \-lly \fIby
selects 
.I by
as the lower left corner y coordinate (in inches).
.TP
.B \-landscape
renders the image in landscape mode.
.TP
.B \-portrait
renders the image in portrait mode.
.TP
.B \-nocrop
does not crop the output image dimensions to match the PostScript
image area dimensions.
.TP
.B \-pbm \-pgm \-ppm
selects the format of the output file.  By default, all files are
rendered as portable pixmaps (ppm format).
.TP
.B \-stdout
causes output to go to Standard Output instead of to regular files,
one per page (see description of output files above).  Use
.B pnmsplit
to extract individual pages from Standard Output.
.TP
.B \-urx \fItx
selects 
.I tx
as the upper right corner x coordinate (in inches).
.TP
.B \-ury \fIty
selects 
.I ty
as the upper right corner y coordinate (in inches).
.TP
.B \-verbose
prints processing information to stdout.
.TP
.B \-xborder \fIfrac
specifies that the border width along the Y axis should be 
.I frac
times the document width as specified by the bounding box comment in
the PostScript file header.  The default value is 0.1.
.TP
.B \-xmax \fIxs
specifies that the maximum output image width should have a size less
or equal to
.IR xs 
pixels (default: 612).   
.TP
.B \-xsize \fIxsize
specifies that the output image width must be exactly
.I xs
pixels.
.TP
.B \-yborder \fIfrac
specifies that the border width along the X axis should be 
.I frac
times the document width as specified by the bounding box comment in
the PostScript file header.  The default value is 0.1.
.TP
.B \-ymax \fIys
specifies that the maximum output image height should have a size less
or equal to
.IR ys 
pixels (default: 792).   
.TP
.B \-ysize \fIys
specifies that the output image height must be exactly
.I ys
pixels.

.SH BUGS
The program will produce incorrect results with PostScript files that
initialize the current transformation matrix.  In these cases, page
translation and rotation will not have any effect.  To render these
files, probably the best bet is to use the following options:
.PP
\ \ \ pstopnm -xborder 0 -yborder 0 -portrait -nocrop file.ps
.PP
Additional options may be needed if the document is supposed to be
rendered on a medium different from letter-size paper.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gs (1), 
.BR pstofits (1), 
.BR pnmtops (1), 
.BR psidtopgm (1), 
.BR pbmtolps (1),
.BR pbmtoepsi (1),
.BR pnmsplit (1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1992 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
.br
PostScript is a Trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and  sell  this
.\" software  and  its  documentation  for any purpose is hereby
.\" granted without  fee,  provided  that  the  above  copyright
.\" notice  appear  in  all  copies and that both that copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" and  that  the  name  of the  Smithsonian Astrophysical
.\" Observatory not be used in advertising or publicity
.\" pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written  prior  permission.   The Smithsonian  Astrophysical
.\" Observatory makes no representations about  the  suitability
.\" of  this  software for any purpose.  It is provided  "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\" THE  SMITHSONIAN  ASTROPHYSICAL  OBSERVATORY  DISCLAIMS  ALL
.\" WARRANTIES  WITH  REGARD  TO  THIS  SOFTWARE,  INCLUDING ALL
.\" IMPLIED  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN  NO
.\" EVENT SHALL THE  SMITHSONIAN  ASTROPHYSICAL  OBSERVATORY  BE
.\" LIABLE FOR  ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS  OF USE,  DATA
.\" OR  PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION  WITH
.\" THE  USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH AUTHOR
Alberto Accomazzi, WIPL, Center for Astrophysics.

