.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sgml2rtf.1
.\"
.TH SGML2RTF 1 "16 May 2000"
.SH NAME
sgml2rtf \- create RTF output from a LinuxDoc DTD SGML source file 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgml2rtf [generic_option...] [--twosplit]
.IR file [.sgml]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sgml2rtf
is an old and obsoleted form of the rtf converter command
of LinuxDoc-Tools.  It is recommended to switch the new form
.B linuxdoc -B rtf
now.
It converts a LinuxDoc DTD SGML source file to RTF, the Rich Text Tormat 
used by the Microsoft Windows help system. Output will appear in the top 
level file
.I file.rtf
and 
.I file-n.rtf
for each section, where 
.I file
is the name of the SGML source file.  The RTF output is tailored for 
compilation by the Windows Help Compiler (hc31.exe).
.LP
The attribute/value pair "output=rtf" is set for conditionals.
.SH OPTIONS
.B sgml2rtf
accepts all the generic options described in
.BR linuxdoc (1), and:
.IP "--twosplit, -2"
Splits files both at n. sections and n.m. subsections
.IP file
The SGML source file, named either 
.I file
or 
.I file.sgml
.SH FILES
Many files and executables in /usr/share/linuxdoc-tools and /usr/bin are used. 
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written by Steve Tynor <tynor@atlanta.twr.com>, and
Cees de Groot <cg@pobox.com> for sgml-tools (v1).
Currently maintained by Taketoshi Sano <sano@debian.org> for Linuxdoc-Tools.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linuxdoc (1),
.BR sgml2html (1),
.BR sgml2info (1),
.BR sgml2latex (1), 
.BR sgml2lyx (1), 
.BR sgml2txt (1),
.BR sgmlcheck (1).
