.\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 1999/03/21 22:52:23 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "3. Dezember 2008" Linux Linux\-Programmierhandbuch
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
shutdown \- einen Teil einer Voll\-Duplex\-Verbindung beenden
.SH ÜBERSICHT
\fB#include <sys/socket.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint shutdown(int \fP\fIsockfd\fP\fB, int \fP\fIhow\fP\fB);\fP
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Aufruf \fBshutdown\fP() beendet eine ganze Voll\-Duplex\-Verbindung oder
einen Teil einer Voll\-Duplex\-Verbindung, die mit dem Socket \fIsockfd\fP
verbunden ist. Wenn \fIhow\fP gleich \fBSHUT_RD\fP ist, so werden weitere
empfangene Nachrichten abgelehnt. Wenn \fIhow\fP gleich \fBSHUT_WR\fP ist, so
werden weitere zu sendende Nachrichten abgelehnt. Wenn \fIhow\fP gleich
\fBSHUT_RDWR\fP ist, so werden weitere zu sendende und empfangene Nachrichten
abgelehnt.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Bei Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben. Bei einem Fehler wird \-1 zurückgegeben
und \fIerrno\fP entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 
\fBEBADF\fP
\fIsockfd\fP ist kein gültiger Descriptor.
.TP 
\fBENOTCONN\fP
Das angegebene Socket ist nicht verbunden.
.TP 
\fBENOTSOCK\fP
\fIsockfd\fP ist eine Datei, kein Socket.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX.1\-2001, 4.4BSD (die Funktion \fBshutdown\fP() tauchte das erste Mal in
BSD 4.2 auf).
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Die Konstanten \fBSHUT_RD\fP, \fBSHUT_WR\fP, \fBSHUT_RDWR\fP nehmen die Werte 0, 1, 2
respektive an und sind seit Glibc 2.1.91 in \fI<sys/socket.h>\fP
definiert.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
\fBconnect\fP(2), \fBsocket\fP(2), \fBsocket\fP(7)
.SH KOLOPHON
Diese Seite ist Teil der Veröffentlichung 3.35 des Projekts
Linux\-\fIman\-pages\fP. Eine Beschreibung des Projekts und Informationen, wie
Fehler gemeldet werden können, finden sich unter
http://man7.org/linux/man\-pages/.

.SH ÜBERSETZUNG
Die deutsche Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite wurde von
Helge Kreutzmann <debian@helgefjell.de>
und
Tobias Quathamer <toddy@debian.org>
erstellt.

Diese Übersetzung ist Freie Dokumentation; lesen Sie die
GNU General Public License Version 3 oder neuer bezüglich der
Copyright-Bedingungen. Es wird KEINE HAFTUNG übernommen.

Wenn Sie Fehler in der Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite finden,
schicken Sie bitte eine E-Mail an <debian-l10n-german@lists.debian.org>.
