.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 23:02:38 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 00:55:48 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH _EXIT 2 "4. Mai 1996" Linux "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
_exit \- beendet den aktuellen Prozeß
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void _exit(int " status );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B _exit
beendet den aufrufenden Prozeß sofort.  Zum Prozeß gehöhrende
Datei-Deskriptoren werden geschlossen und Tochterprozesse werden dem
Prozeß 1, init, vererbt bzw. zugeteilt.  Dem Vaterprozeß wird
anschließend ein 
.BR SIGCHLD \-Signal
geschickt.

.I status
wird als Exit-Wert an den Vaterprozeß zurückgegeben und kann mit
einem der Funktionen der
.B wait
Familie ermittelt werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B _exit
kehrt niemals zurück
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
.B _exit
rut keine Funktion auf, die mit der ANSI-C-Routine
.B atexit
registriert wurde, und leert auch nicht die üblichen I/O Puffer. Um
diese Dinge zu erledigen, sollte
.BR exit (3)
verwendet werden.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fork (2), 
.BR execve (2),
.BR waitpid (2),
.BR wait4 (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR wait (3),
.BR exit (3).
