.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Jul 22 14:00:08 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Aug 10 1993 by Alan Cox (iiitac@pyramid.swansea.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH ACCT 2 "30. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
acct - schaltet das Prozess-Accounting an bzw. aus
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.ad l
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int acct(const char *" filename );
.fi
.ad b
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.BR WARNUNG
Da die Funktion seit Linux 0.99.11 nicht implementiert ist, liefert
sie immer -1 zurück und setzt
.I errno
auf 
.BR ENOSYS .
Wenn das acctkit installiert ist, verhält sich die Funktion 
'wie angekündigt'.

Ruft man die Funktion mit einer existierenden Datei
auf, wird das Accounting eingeschaltet und ein Datensatz für jeden
Prozess, der beendet wurde, wird 
.I filename
hinzugefügt. Ruft man die Funktion mit
.B NULL
auf, wird das Accounting ausgeschaltet.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird eine Null zurückgeliefert, im Fehlerfall eine -1 und
.I errno
wir gesetzt.
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Es wir kein Accounting für Programme erzeugt, wenn das System abstürzt.
Manchmal werden Prozesse, die nicht beendet werden, nicht berücksichtigt.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR acct (5).

