.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" German Translation Tue Feb 6 21:07:00 1996 Elmar Jansen (ej@pumuckel.gun.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 00:55:48 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH ALARM 2 "10. Juni 1996" Linux "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
alarm \- setzt einen Wecker, um ein Signal zu senden
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "long alarm(long " seconds );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.BR alarm " setzt die Zeit " 
.I seconds
in Sekunden, in der der Prozeß das Signal
.BR SIGALRM
gesandt bekommen soll.

Wenn die Zeit
.I seconds
geich Null ist, wird kein neuer 
.B alarm
ausgelöst.   

Jeder vorher gesetzte
.B alarm
wird gelöscht.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B alarm
gibt die Zeit in Sekunden zurück, die verbleiben bis ein vorher gesetzter
alarm ausgelöst wird.  War kein
.B alarm
gesetzt, so wird Null zurückgegeben.
.SH BEMERKUNGEN
.BR alarm " und " setitimer
teilen sich den gleichen Timer; ein Aufruf einer der Funktionen beeinflußt
die Andere.

Scheduling kann die Ausführung des Prozesses für unbestimmte Zeit unterbrechen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR pause (2),
.BR sleep (3).
