.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyleft 1996 Hanno Wagner <wagner@bidnix.bid.fh-hannover.de>
.\"   for the german translation
.\"
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Heavily modified by Jörg Mertin (smurphy@stardust.bln.sub.org)
.\"
.TH BIND 2 "13. Mai 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
bind \- verbindet einen Namen mit einem Socket.
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int bind(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" my_addr ", int " addrlen );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B bind
weist dem Socket
.I sockfd 
die lokale Adresse
.IR my_addr 
zu.
.I my_addr
ist
.I addrlen
Bytes lang.  Traditionsgemäß wird dies "einem Socket einen Namen zuweisen"
genannt (wenn ein Socket mit 
.BR socket (2)
erzeugt wird, existiert er in einer Adreßfamilie (Namespace), hat
aber keinen eigenen Namen.
.SH BEMERKUNGEN
Einen Namen in einer UNIX Domäne zu binden erzeugt einen Socket im
Dateisystem, welches vom Erzeuger gelöscht werden muß wenn dieser nicht
mehr gebraucht wird (hierzu wird
.BR unlink (2)
benutzt).

Die Regeln, um zwischen verschiedenen Domänen zu Kommunizieren,
variieren.  Hier sei auf die Handbuchseite in Abschnitt 4 verwiesen.

.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
Bei erfolgreicher Ausführung wird null zurückgeliefert, bei einem
Fehler \-1 und
.I errno
entsprecht gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
ist kein gültiger Deskriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Der Socket ist bereits an eine Adresse gebunden. Dies kann sich in
Zukunft ändern. Siehe
.I linux/unix/sock.c
für Details.
.TP
.B EACCES
Die Adresse ist geschützt und der Benutzer ist nicht der Super-User.
.PP
Die folgenden Fehlermeldungen sind spezifisch für UNIX-Domänensockets
(AF_UNIX):
.TP 0.8i
.B EINVAL
Die
.I addr_len
war falsch oder der Socket gehörte nicht zur
.B AF_UNIX
Familie.
.TP
.B EROFS
Die Socket "Inode" sollte auf einem schreibgeschützten Dateisystem
residieren.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I my_addr
weist auf eine Adresse außerhalb des erreichbaren Adreßraumes zu.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I my_addr
ist zu lang.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Die Datei existiert nicht.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Nicht genug Kernelspeicher vorhanden.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Eine Komponente des Pfad-Präfixes ist kein Verzeichnis.
.TP
.B EACCES
Keine berechtigung um eine Komponente des Pfad-prefixes zu durchsuchen.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I my_addr
enthält eine Kreis-Referenz (zum Beispiel durch einen symbolischen
Link)

.SH GESCHICHTE
Der 
.B bind
Funktionruf erschien zuerst in BSD 4.2.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getsockname (2).
