.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:52:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 17:40:38 1994 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Tue Jun 04 16:15:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH BRK 2 "4. Juni 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmierhandbuch"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
brk, sbrk \- ändere Datensegmentgröße
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int brk(void *" end_data_segment );
.br
.BI "void *sbrk(ptrdiff_t" increment );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B brk
setzt das Ende des Datensegments auf den Wert, der durch
.IR end_data_segment
angegeben ist.
.I end_datasegment
muss größer als das Ende des Textsegmentes sein und muss 16kB vor dem Ende
des Stacks sein.

.B sbrk
erhöht den Datenbereich des Programms um
.I increment
byte.
.B sbrk
ist kein Systemaufruf, sondern nur ein C-Library wrapper.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
BEi Erfolg gibt 
.B brk
Null zurück und
.B sbrk
einen Pointer auf den Start des neuen Bereiches.
Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
auf
.BR ENOMEM
gesetzt.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3

.BR brk " und " sbrk
sind nicht im C Standard definiert und sind absichtlich ausgeschlossen vom
POSIX.1 Standard (siehe Paragraphen B.1.1.1.3 und B.8.3.3).
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR execve (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR end (3).

