.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" German translation by René Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 12:14:38 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "22 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getdomainname, setdomainname \- hole/setze Domainname
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Diese Funktionen werden dazu benutzt, den Domainnamen des Systems
abzufragen oder zu setzen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird 0 geliefert, bei aufgetretenem Fehler -1 und 
.I errno
wird entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EINVAL
Bei
.BR getdomainname 
zeigt
.I name
auf
.B NULL
oder
.I name
ist länger als
.IR len .
.TP
.B EPERM
Bei
.BR setdomainname 
war der Aufrufende nicht der Superuser.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Bei
.BR setdomainname 
war
.I len
zu lang.
.SH "KOMPATIBEL ZU"
Diese Funktionen sind nicht nach POSIX spezifiziert worden.
.SH BUGS
.B getdomainname
ist nicht analog zu anderen Implementationen, die stets 
.I len
Bytes liefern, auch wenn 
.I name
länger ist.  Linux liefert in solchen Fällen
.B EINVAL
(wie bei DLL 4.4.1 Libraries).
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Unter Linux ist
.B getdomainname
auf Libraryebene durch einen Aufruf von
.BR uname (2)
realisiert.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2).

