.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into german by Stefan Janke (gonzo@burg.studfb.unibw-muenchen.de)
.\"
.TH GETGID 2 "2. September 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getgid, getegid \- gibt die Gruppenidentifikation (GID) zurück
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B gid_t getgid(void);
.br
.B gid_t getegid(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getgid
gibt die reale Gruppen-ID des laufenden Prozesses zurück.

.B getegid
gibt die effektive Gruppen-ID des laufenden Prozesses zurück.

Die reale ID ergibt sich aus der ID des aufrufenden Prozesses. Die
effektive ID ergibt sich aus dem Set-ID-Bit der Datei, die ausgeführt
wird.
.SH FEHLER
Diese Funktionen sind immer erfolgreich.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR setregid (2),
.BR setgid (2).
