.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" German translation by René Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 12:21:10 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETGROUPS 2 "23. July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getgroups, setgroups \- hole/setze Group Access List
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getgroups(int " size ", gid_t " list []);
.sp 2
.B #define __USE_BSD
.br
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "int setgroups(size_t " size ", const gid_t *" list );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.TP
.B getgroups
Bis zu
.I size
zusätzliche Gruppen werden in
.IR list
eingetragen.  Wenn
.I size
Null ist, wird
.I list
nicht geändert, doch wird die gesamte Anzahl der zusätzlichen Gruppen
des Prozesses zurückgeliefert.
.TP
.B setgroups
Setzt die zusätzlichen Gruppen für den Prozess.  Nur der Superuser darf
diese Funktion benutzen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
.TP
.B getgroups
Bei Erfolg wird die Anzahl der Gruppen in 
.I list
abgelegt.  Falls
.I size
Null ist, wird die Anzahl der zusätzlichen Group IDs des Prozesses
geliefert.  Bei aufgetretenem Fehler wird -1 geliefert und 
.I errno
wird entsprechend gesetzt.
.TP
.B setgroups
Bei Erfolg wir Null geliefert, bei aufgetretenem Fehler wird -1
geliefert und 
.I errno
wird entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I list
ist eine ungültige Adresse.
.TP
.B EPERM
Bei
.BR setgroups
war der aufrufende Benutzer nicht der Superuser.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Bei
.BR setgroups
war
.I gidsetsize
größer als
.B NGROUPS
(32 unter Linux 0.99.11).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
.B getgroups
ist konform zu POSIX.1 und wird in BSD 4.3 benutzt.  Da
.B setgroups
Privilegien verlangt, ist es nicht durch POSIX.1 abgedeckt.
.SH BUGS
Das Flag
.B __USE_BSD
sollte nicht für 
.BR setgroups
angefordert werden.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR initgroups (3).

