.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpeername.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:37:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu Jul 30 14:37:50 1993 by Martin Schulze <joey@debian.org>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Translated into German by Dennis Stampfer <kontakt@dstampfer.de>
.\"
.TH GETPEERNAME 2 "30. August 2002" "" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getpeername \- holt Informationen über eine Gegenstelle
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpeername(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" name ", socklen_t *" namelen );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getpeername
holt Informationen der Gegenstelle, die mit dem Socket
.I s
verbunden ist.  Der Parameter
.I namelen
wird übergeben, um sicherzustellen, dass genug Speicher an der Stelle vorhanden ist,
auf die
.I name
zeigt.
Nach dem Aufruf enthält
.I namelen
die Größe von
.I name
in Bytes.
.PP
.I name
wird abgeschnitten, falls
.I namelen
zu klein ist.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Bei Erfolg wird 0 zurückgegeben.  Bei Fehlern wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EBADF
Der Parameter
.I s
ist kein gültiger Descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Der Parameter
.I s
ist eine Datei, kein Socket.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
Der Socket ist nicht verbunden.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Das System hat nicht genug Ressourcen, um den Vorgang auszuführen.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Der Parameter
.I name
befindet sich außerhalb des Programmspeichers.
.SH KONFORM ZU
SVr4, 4.4BSD (der Funktionsaufruf 
.B getpeername 
war erstmals in 4.2BSD zu finden).
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Das dritte Argument von
.B getpeername
ist in Wirklichkeit vom Typ 'int *' (dies ist auch in BSD 4.*, libc4 und libc5
der Fall).  Einige POSIX-Verwechslungen ergaben das jetzige socklen_t.  Dieser
Standard wurde allerdings noch nicht völlig übernommen (glibc2 folgt diesem
Standard jedoch schon und verfügt bereits über socklen_t).  Lesen Sie dazu
auch
.BR accept (2).
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR getsockname (2).
