.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions from /usr/include/unistd.h are
.\"               Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into German by Regine Bast (regine.bast@bigfoot.com) 
.\"
.TH GETPAGESIZE 2 "19. Mai 1999" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getpagesize \- gibt die Größe einer Systemseite zurück
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B size_t getpagesize(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Gibt die Anzahl Bytes einer Seite zurück.  Genauer gesagt einer Systemseite.
Das ist nicht unbedingt das gleiche, wie die Größe einer Hardwareseite. 
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
.B getpagesize
ist als Bibliotheksfunktion in DLL 4.4.1 implementiert.  Je nach dem, was
definiert war als die Bibliothek übersetzt wurde, gibt die Funktion entweder
.B EXEC_PAGESIZE
(in Linux 0.99.11 auf 4096 gesetzt), oder
.B NBPG
(in Linux 0.99.11 auf 4096 gesetzt), oder
.B NBPC
(ist in Linux 0.99.11 oder den DLL 4.4.1 Bibliotheken nicht definiert) zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVr4, 4.4BSD (tauchte zum 1. Mal in 4.2BSD auf).
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sbrk (2),

