.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into German by Dennis Stampfer <kontakt@dstampfer.de>
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 "26. August 2002" "" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getresuid, getresgid \- ermittelt die reelle, effektive und gespeicherte Benutzer- oder Gruppenidentität
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid ); 
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getresuid
und
.B getresgid
(beide in Linux 2.1.44 eingeführt) ermitteln die reelle, effektive und 
gespeicherte Benutzer/Gruppen ID des aktuellen Prozesses.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Bei Erfolg wird 0 zurückgegeben. Bei Fehlern wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EFAULT
Die Adresse eines Parameters liegt außerhalb des Programmspeichers.
.SH KONFORM ZU
Diese Funktionen sind Linuxspezifisch.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR getreuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2).
