.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Translated into German by Dennis Stampfer <kontakt@dstampfer.de>
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 "28. August 2002" "" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getsockname \- holt den Namen eines Sockets
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockname(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" name ", socklen_t *" namelen );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B Getsockname
holt den Namen
.I name
eines Sockets.  Der Parameter 
.I namelen
wird übergeben, um sicherzustellen, dass genug Speicher an der Stelle ist, auf die
.I name
zeigt.
Nach dem Aufruf enthält
.I namelen
die Größe von
.I name
in Bytes.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Bei Erfolg wird 0 zurückgegeben. Bei Fehlern wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EBADF
Der Parameter
.I s
ist kein gültiger Deskriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Der Parameter
.I s
ist eine Datei, kein Socket.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Das System hat nicht genug Ressourcen, um den Vorgang auszuführen.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Der Parameter
.I name
befindet sich außerhalb des Programmspeichers.
.SH KONFORM ZU
SVr4, 4.4BSD (Der Funktonsaufruf
.B getsockname
war erstmals in 4.2BSD zu finden).  SVr4 beinhaltet zusätzlich noch die Fehler
ENOMEM und ENOSR.
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Das dritte Argument von
.B getsockname
ist in Wirklichkeit vom Typ 'int *' (dies ist auch in BSD 4.*, libc4 und libc5
der Fall).  Einige Verwechslungen in POSIX haben das jetzige socklen_t ergeben.  Dieser
Standard wurde allerdings noch nicht völlig übernommen (glibc2 folgt diesem
Standard jedoch schon und verfügt bereits über socklen_t).  Lesen Sie dazu
auch 
.BR accept (2).
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR bind (2),
.BR socket (2).
