.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@finlandia.infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH GETSID 2 "28. Juni 1996" "Linux 1.3.85" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getsid \- lies die Session-ID aus
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B pid_t getsid(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getsid(0)
gibt die Session-ID des aufrufenden Prozesses zurück.
.BI getsid( p )
liefert die Session-ID des Prozesses mit der der Prozess-ID
.I p 
zurück.
.SH FEHLER
Bei einem Fehler wird \-1 zurückgegeben.  Der einzige Fehler, der
auftreten kann, ist
.BR ESRCH ,
wenn kein Prozess mit der Prozess-ID
.I p
gefunden wurde.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Dieser Aufruf ist Linux-spezifisch.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR setsid (2).
