.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into german by Stefan Janke (gonzo@burg.studfb.unibw-muenchen.de)
.\"
.TH GETUID 2 "19. August 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getuid, geteuid \- erhalten der Benutzerindentität
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B uid_t getuid(void);
.br
.B uid_t geteuid(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getuid
liefert die reale Benutzeridentität (UID) des aktuellen Prozesses.

.B geteuid
liefert die effektive Benutzeridentität des aktuellen Prozesses.

Die reale ID entspricht der ID des aufrufenden Prozesses.  Die
effektive ID entspricht dem gesetzten ID-Bit der Datei, die
ausgefuehrt wird. 
.SH FEHLER
Diese Funktionen sind immer erfolgreich.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX, BSD 4.3.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2).
