.\" Hey Emacs! Diese Datei ist -*- nroff -*- Quelle.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Teile von linux/mm/swap.c entnommen:
.\"                Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Verändert am 21 Aug 1994 durch Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"  zusätzlicher Text über aufrufende Einschränkungen (neu im 
.\"  Kernel 1.1.20, soweit ich weiß) 
.\"  N.B. ruft "idle" als Benutzerprozess auf, um den Prozess zu erhängen.
.\" "
.\" German translation: norbert  weuster@etecs0.uni-duisburg.de
.\"
.TH IDLE 2 "21. August 1994" "Linux 1.1.46" "Linux Programmierer Handbuch"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
idle \- versetzt den Prozess 0 in Leerlauf.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B void idle(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B idle
ist ein interner Systemaufruf, der während des Urladers benutzt wird.
Er markiert die Seite des Prozesses als auslagerbar, erniedrigt seine Priorität
und tritt in die Hauptvorbereitungsschleife.
.B idle
kehrt nie zurück.
.PP
Nur der Prozess 0 darf
.BR idle 
aufrufen.
Jeder Benutzerprozess, sogar ein Prozess mit root-Rechten, wird ein 
.BR EPERM 
empfangen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B idle
kehrt nie vom Prozess 0 zurück und gibt für einen Benutzerprozess immer \-1
wieder.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
Immer, für einen Benutzerprozess.

