.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ioctl.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:38:19 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 25 23:51:39 BST 1999 by Rachael Munns <vashti@dream.org.uk>
.\" Modified Thu Sep 21 20:57:23 MET 2000 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Translated to German Sun Jun 02 14:55:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 12:24:42 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\" Modified 22 Feb 2001 Michael Piefel <piefel@informatik.hu-berlin.de>
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 "21. September 2000" "BSD" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH "BEZEICHNUNG"
ioctl \- steuere Gerät
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioctl(int " d ", int " request ", ...)"
.sp
[Das "dritte" Argument ist traditionsgemäß \fBchar *\fIargp\fR, und wird
in diesem Dokument so bezeichnet.]
.SH "BESCHREIBUNG"
Die Funktion
.B ioctl
manipuliert die zugrundeliegenden Device-Parameter einer Spezialdatei.  Im 
Besonderen können viele Betriebscharakteristika von zeichenorientierten 
Spezialdateien (z. B. Terminals) durch
.BR ioctl -Aufrufe
gesteuert werden.  Das Argument
.I d
muss ein geöffneter Dateideskriptor sein.

In einer
.RI ioctl- request
ist enthalten, ob das Argument ein
.IR in -
oder 
.IR out -Parameter
ist, und die Größe des Argumentes
.I argp
in Byte.  Makros und Definitionen, die in der Spezifikation eines
.RI ioctl- request
benutzt werden, sind zu finden in
.IR <sys/ioctl.h> .
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
üblicherweise wird bei Erfolg Null zurückgegeben.  Einige
ioctl-Aufrufe benutzen den Rückgabewert als einen Ausgabeparameter und
geben bei Erfolg einen nichtnegativen Wert.
Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EBADF
.I d
ist kein gültiger Deskriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I d
ist nicht mit einer zeichenorientierten Spezialdatei verbunden.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
Die angegebene Anforderung passt nicht zu der Art der Änderung, auf die sich
der Deskriptor
.I d
bezieht.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Request
oder
.I argp
ist nicht gültig.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Kein einzelner Standard. Argumente, Rückgabewerte und Semantik von
.BR ioctl (2)
variieren je nach dem entsprechenden Gerätetreiber (der Aufruf wird als ein
Allheilmittel für alle Operationen benutzt, die nicht sauber in das
Unix-Stream-E/A-Modell passen).  Siehe
.BR ioctl_list (2)
für eine Liste von vielen der bekannten
.BR ioctl -Aufrufe.
Die Funktion
.B ioctl
erschien in Version 7 von AT&T UNIX.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR mt (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR tty (4).

