.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\" 
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 15:12:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Aug  1 16:27    1995 by Jochen Karrer 
.\"                              (cip307@cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de)
.\" Translated to German Sun Jun 02 13:54:00 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH IOPERM 2 "2. Juni 1996" "Linux" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ioperm \- setze Port-Zugriffsrechte für Eingabe/Ausgabe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioperm(unsigned long " from ", unsigned long " num ", int " turn_on );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
\fBIoperm\fP setzt die Portzugriffsrechtsbits für den Prozess für
\fInum\fP Byte beginend mit Portadresse \fBfrom\fP auf den Wert
\fBturn_on\fP.  Der Gebraucht von \fBioperm\fP benötigt Superuser-Rechte.

Nur die ersten 0x3ff I/O-Ports können in dieser Weise angegeben werden.  Bei
weiteren Ports muß die Funktion
.B iopl
verwendet werden.
Rechte werden nicht von fork, wohl aber von exec vererbt.  Dies ist nützlich,
um Portzugriffsrechte nicht-pivilegierten Tasks zu gewähren.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
BEi Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben.  Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
\fBioperm\fP ist Linuxspezifisch.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR iopl (2).
