.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/kernel/ioport.c (no copyright notice).
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Aug  1 16:47    1995 by Jochen Karrer 
.\"                              (cip307@cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de)
.\" Translated to German Sun Jun 02 08:52:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH IOPL 2 "2. Juni 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
iopl \- ändere I/O-Privilegebene
.SH ÜBERSICHT 
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int iopl(int " level );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B iopl
ändert die I/O-Privilegebene des aktuellen Prozesses wie angegeben in
.IR level .

Dieser Aufruf in notwendig um 8514-kompatible X-Server unter Linux laufen
zu lassen.  Da diese X-Server Zugriff auf alle 65536 I/O-Ports benötigen, ist
der Aufruf
.B ioperm
nicht ausreichend.

Zusätzlich zu uneingeschränktem Zugriff auf I/O-Ports erlaubt das Laufen
in einer höheren Privilegebene dem Prozess auch, Interupts auszuschalten
Dies kann möglicherweise das System zusammenbrechen lassen, und wird nicht
empfohlen.

Zugriffsrechte werden von fork und exec vererbt. 

Die I/O-Privilegebene eines normalen Prozesses ist 0.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
BEi Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben.  Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EINVAL
.I level
ist größer als 3.
.TP
.B EPERM
Der aktuelle User ist nicht der Superuser.
.SH "BEMERKUNGEN AUS DER KERNEL-SOURCE"
.B iopl
muß benutzt werden wenn man die I/O-Ports hinter 0x3ff benutzen will:
um alle 65536 Ports zu Verzeichnen braucht man 8kB Speicherplatz, was ein
wenig übertrieben ist.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR ioperm (2).
