.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Translated to German Sun Jun 04 15:03:00 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH IPC 2 "4. Juni 1996" "Linux 1.2.4" "Linux Programmierhandbuch"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ipc \- System V IPC Systemaufrufe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.BI "int ipc(unsigned int" " call, " "int" " first, " "int" " second, "
.BI "int" " third, " "void *" "ptr, " "long" " fifth);"
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B ipc
ist ein gemeinsamer Kernel-Eintrittspunkt für die System V IPC - Aufrufe
für Messages, Semaphoren und shared memory.
.I call
legt fest, welche IPC-Funktion aufzurufen ist;
die anderen Argumente werden an die aufgerufene Funktion weitergereicht.
.PP
User-Programme sollen die bereitgestellten Funktionen durch ihre
gewöhnlichen Namen aufrufen.
Nur Programmierer der Standard-Bibliotheken und Kernel-Hacker brauchen
Einzelheiten
.BR ipc
zu kennen.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmat (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2).
