.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jun 03 19:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 12:29:34 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH KILLPG 2 "2. Juni 1996" "BSD Man Page" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
killpg \- sendet ein Signal zu einer Prozessgruppe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(int " pgrp ", int " sig );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B Killpg
sendet das Signal 
.I sig
an die Prozessgruppe
.IR pgrp .
Bei
.BR sigaction (2)
finden Sie eine Liste der Signale.
Wenn
.I pgrp
0 ist, dann sendet
.B killpg
das Signal zu der Prozessgruppe des sendenden Prozesses.

Der sendende Prozess und Mitglieder der Prozessgruppe müssen die gleiche
effektive User-ID haben, oder der Sender muss der Superuser sein.
Als ein einziger Sonderfall kann das Signal
.B SIGCONT
zu jedem Prozess gesendet werden, der Abkömmling des aktuellen Prozesses ist.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben.  Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Sig
ist kein gültiges Signal.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Es kann kein Prozess gefunden werden, der der Gruppe
.IR pgrp
angehört.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Als Prozessgruppe wurde 0 angegeben, doch der sendende Prozess hat keine
Prozessgruppe.
.TP
.B EPERM
Der sendende Prozess ist nicht der Superuser und einer oder mehrere der
Zielprozesse hat eine andere effektive User-ID als der sendende Prozess.
.SH GESCHICHTE
Die Funktion
.B killpg
erschien in BSD4.0.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR kill (2),
.BR getpgrp (2),
.BR signal (2).
