.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:51:55 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" German Translation Sat Feb 04 20:46:00 1996 Elmar Jansen (ej@pumuckel.gun.de)
.\"
.TH NICE 2 "4. Februar 1996" "Linux" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH NAME
nice \- ändere die Prozesspriorität
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int nice(int " inc );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B nice
addiert
.I inc
zur Priorität des aufrufenden Prozesses. Zu beachten ist, daß nur der 
Superuser ein negatives Inkrement angeben darf. Intern bedeutet eine höhere
Nummer ein höhere Priorität. Es ist nicht zu verweschseln mit den 
Prioritäten die von
.B  nice
benutzt werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben. Bei einem Fehler wird \-1 zurückgegeben
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
Ein nicht Superuser versucht die Priorität zu erhöhen , eine numerische
Minimierung, durch Angabe eines negativen
.IR inc .
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID EXT, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR nice "(1), " setpriority "(2), " fork "(2), " renice (8)

