.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Fixed incorrect word in 'TH' call.
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@finlandia.infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH OBSOLETE 2 "2. Juni 1996" "Linux 1.3.6" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldstat, oldolduname, olduname \- alte Systemaufrufe
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
Alte Systemaufrufe
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Kernel 1.3.6 hat diese Systemaufrufe implementiert, damit alte
Programme weiterhin benutzt werden können.  Diese Routinen geben
Strukturen zurück, die seit der ersten Implementierung größer
geworden sind, aber alte Programme nehmen noch immer kleinere
Strukturen an.

Heutige Programme sollten an aktuelle Bibliotheken gebunden werden und
diese Systemaufrufe nie verwenden.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR uname (2),
.BR undocumented (2),
.BR unimplemented (2).
