.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Hanno Wagner <wagner@bidnix.bid.fh-hannover.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" typo corrected, aeb, 950825
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH PERSONALITY 2 "3. Mai 1996" "Linux 1.3.20" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
personality \- setzt die Prozessausführungsumgebung fest.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.BI "int personality(unsigned long " persona );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Linux unterstützt verschiedene Ausführungsumgebungen für jeden
Prozess.  Die Ausführungsebene sagt Linux, wie es zwischen den Prozessen
die Signalnummern in Signalaktionen umsetzen soll.  Das Ausführungssystem
erlaubt Linux, teilweise für andere Unix-Systeme kompilierte Programme
direkt laufen zu lassen.

.B personality
macht die aktuelle Ausführungsebene, die durch
.I persona
refenziert wird, zur neuen Ausführungsebene des aktuellen Prozesses
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Falls erfolgreich, wird
.I persona
zur neuen Ausführungsebene und die vorherige
.I persona
wird zurückgegeben.  Falls ein Fehler auftritt, wird \-1
zurückgegeben und 
.I errno
wird sofort gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EINVAL
.I persona
zeigt nicht auf eine korrekte Ausführungsebene.
.SH DATEIEN
.I /usr/include/linux/personality.h
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
.B Personality
ist Linuxspezifisch.

