.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 23:25:42 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Übersetzung 31.01.1996 Lars J. Brandt <ljbrandt@jorma.ping.de>
.\"
.TH PIPE 2 "31. Januar 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
pipe \- erstellt eine Pipe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pipe(int " modus "[2]);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B pipe
erzeugt zwei auf eine Pipe-Inode zeigende Dateibe-
schreibungen
(Dateideskriptoren) und setzt sie in das entsprechende Feld (Array)
von
.I modus.
Hierbei steht
.I modus[0]   
für Lesezugriff und
.I modus[1]
für Schreibzugriff.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
Bei erfolgreicher Ausführung wird '0'\- und im Falle eines Fehlers
\'-1' zurückgegeben und  
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER 
.TP 0.8i
.B EMFILE
Der Prozess benutzt zu viele Deskriptoren.
.TP
.B ENFILE
In der Dateitabelle ist kein Platz mehr.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I modus
ist eine ungültige Angabe.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR socketpair (2).
