.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\"
.\" Tue Jul  6 22:36:09 MDT 1993 (dminer@nyx.cs.du.edu)
.\"  Made this clearer...
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:16:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 
.\" Translated into German by Wolfgang Jung (woju@keep.in-berlin.de) on
.\" Fri Apr  5 15:39:52 MET DST 1996
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 13:31:45 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH REBOOT 2 "28. März 28, 1992" "Linux 0.99.10" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
reboot \- Neustart, oder Deaktivieren von Cntrl-Alt-Entf (Ctrl-Alt-Del)
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int reboot (int " magic ", int " magic_too ", int " flag );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B reboot
startet das System neu, oder deaktiviert CAD.
.PP
Wenn  
.I magic 
== 0xfee1dead && 
.I magictoo 
== 672274793, dann wird die Funktion unter Beachtung von 
.IR flag 
ausgeführt.
.sp
Wenn
.I flag
= 0x1234567 ist, dann wird ein ein Reset
.br
durchgeführt.
.br
Wenn
.I flag
= 0x89abcdef ist, dann wird CAD aktiviert.
.br
Wenn
.I flag
= 0 ist, dann wird CAD deaktiviert und ein
.br
Signal an den Prozess mit der PID 1 (in der Regel der
.br
INIT Prozess) geschickt.

Es gilt zu beachten, dass 
.B reboot() 
.I kein
.B sync()!
durchführt.

Nur dem Super-User ist es gestattet, diese Funktion aufzurufen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei erfolgreichem Bearbeiten der Funktion wird eine 0 zurückgeliefert.
Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgeliefert und es wird .I errno passend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EINVAL 
Inkorrekte Angabe der
.IR magic " number für " magic ", " magic_too " oder/und " flag .
.TP
.B EPERM
Nicht der Super-User hat den Zugriff gemacht.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
.B reboot
ist Linux spezifisch.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sync (2),
.BR ctrlaltdel (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8).

