.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpgrp.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 01:15:33 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added 'getpgid'.
.\" Translated to German Sun Oct 13 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH SETPGID 2 "13. Oktober 1996" "Linux 1.2.4" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH NAME
setpgid, getpgid, setpgrp, getpgrp \- setze/hole Prozessgruppe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setpgid(pid_t " pid ", pid_t " pgid );
.br
.BI "pid_t getpgid(pid_t " pid );
.br
.B int setpgrp(void);
.br
.B pid_t getpgrp(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B setpgid
setzt die Prozessgruppenkennung (Process Group ID) des durch
.I pid
angegebenen Prozesses auf
.IR pgid .
Wenn
.I pid
Null ist wird die aktuelle Prozesskennung benutzt.  Wenn
.I pgid
Null ist wird die Prozesskennung des durch
.I pid
angegebenen Prozesses benutzt.

.B getpgid
gibt die Prozessgruppenkennung des Prozesses zurück, der durch
.IR pid
angegeben ist.
Wenn 
.I pid
Null ist, wird die Prozesskennung des aktuellen Prozesses benutzt.

In der Bibliothek Linux DLL 4.4.1 ruft
.B setpgrp
einfach
.BR setpgid(0,0)
auf.

.B getpgrp
ist äquivalent zu
.BR getpgid(0) .

Prozessgruppen werden benutzt zur Verbreitung von Signalen und von Terminals
zum Verteilen von Eingabeanforderungen: Prozesses, die die gleiche
Prozessgruppe haben wie das Terminal, sind im Vordergrund und dürfen lesen,
während andere mit einem Signal blockiert sind, wenn sie versuchen zu lesen.

Diese Aufrufe sind werden also benutzt von Programmen wie
.BR csh (1),
um Prozessgruppen zu erzeugen, um Job-Kontrolle zu realisieren.  Die Aufrufe
.B TIOCGPGRP
und
.BR TIOCSPGRP ,
die in 
.BR termios (4)
beschrieben sind, werden benutzt, um die Prozessgruppe des kontrollierenden
Terminals zu lesen/zu setzen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg geben
.BR setpgid " und " setpgrp
Null zurück.  Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.

.B getpgid
gibt bei Erfolg eine Prozessgruppe zurück.
Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.

.B getpgrp
gibt immer die aktuelle Prozessgruppe zurück.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I pgid
ist kleiner als 0.
.TP
.B EPERM
Verschiedene Zugriffsrechteprobleme.
.TP
.B ESRCH
.I pid
entspricht keinem Prozess.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setsid (2),
.BR tcsetpgrp (3),
.BR termios (4).
