.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Hanno Wagner (wagner@bidnix.bid.fh-hannover.de),
.\" May 02, 1995 for german version
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com)
.\"   Update calling parameters to Linux 1.2.4 values.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH SETUP 2 "3. Mai 1996" "Linux 1.2.9" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
setup \- setzt Geräte und Dateisysteme auf und mountet das Root-Filesystem
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(int, setup);
.sp
.B int setup(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B Setup
wird einmal von
.IR linux/init/main.c 
aus aufgerufen.
Es initialisiert die Funktionen für Geräte und Dateisysteme, die im Kernel
konfiguriert sind, und mountet dann das Hauptdateisystem.
.PP
Kein Benutzerprozess kann
.BR setup 
aufrufen.
Jeder Benutzerprozess, auch ein Prozess mit Superuser Rechten erhält ein
.BR EPERM .
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B Setup
gibt immer \-1 bei einem Benutzerprozess zurück.
.SH FEHLERMELDUNGEN
.TP
.B EPERM
Immer für einen Benutzerprozess.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Diese Funktion ist Linuxspezifisch.
