.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)shutdown.2  6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "1. Juni 1996" "BSD" "Systemaufrufe"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
shutdown - beendet einen Teil einer Voll-Duplex-Verbindung
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int s , int how );"
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " s ", int " how );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Aufruf shutdown beendet eine ganze Voll-Duplex-Verbindung oder 
einen Teil einer Voll-Duplex-Verbindung, die mit dem Socket
.I s
verbunden ist.
Ist how = 0 , so werden weitere empfangene Nachrichten abgelehnt.
Ist how = 1 , so werden weitere zu sendende Nachrichten abgelehnt.
Ist how = 2 , so werden zu sendende und empfangene Nachrichten abgelehnt.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Beim erfolgreichen Aufruf, bekommt man 0 zurück, ansonsten wird \-1
zurückgegeben und die Variable
.I errno
gesetzt:
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.TP
.B EBADF
.I s
ist kein korrekter Descriptor
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I s
ist ein File, kein Socket
.TP
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
der angegebene Socket hat keine Verbindung
.SH GESCHICHTE
shutdown tauchte das erste Mal in BSD 4.2 auf
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2).


