.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigblock.2	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:15 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 11 1995 by Stephen Lee (sl14@cornell.edu)
.\" German translation by René Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de)
.\""
.TH SIGBLOCK 2 "11. August 1995" "BSD Man Page" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
sigblock, siggetmask, sigsetmask, sigmask \- Manipulation von Signalmasken
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigblock(int " mask );
.br
.B int siggetmask(void);
.br
.BI "int sigsetmask(int " mask );
.br
.BI "int sigmask(" signum );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Dieses Interface kann veraltet sein durch:
.BR sigprocmask (2).

.B Sigblock()
fügt die Signale in
.I mask
der Liste der zu blockierenden Signale hinzu.

.B sigsetmask()
ersetzt die Liste der zu blockierenden Signale mit dem Argument
.IR mask .

Signale werden blockiert, wenn das zugehörige Bit in
.I mask
auf 1 gesetzt ist; das Makro
.B sigmask
ermöglicht die Konstruktion von Masken für eine gegebene Signalnummer
.IR signum .

Es ist nicht möglich,
.B SIGKILL
oder
.BR SIGSTOP 
zu blockieren; Versuche werden vom System stillschweigend unterdrückt.

Die augenblickliche Liste der zu blockierenden Signale kann durch
.BR siggetmask()
erfragt werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
.B Siggetmask()
liefert die Menge der augenblicklich zu maskierenden Signale.

.B Sigsetmask() 
und
.B sigblock()
liefern die vorherigen Menden der maskierten Signale.
.SH ENTWICKLUNG
Diese Funktionen erschienen in BSD 4.3 und wurden mißbilligt.

.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR siggetops (3).

