.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigpause.2	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:26 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" German translation by René Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 22:29:24 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH SIGPAUSE 2 "24. Juli 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
sigpause \- automatische Freigabe blockierter Signale und Warten auf
einen Interrupt
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigpause(int sigmask );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Dieses Interface wurde überholt durch
.BR sigsuspend (2).

.B Sigpause
weist
.I sigmask
die Menge der maskierten Signale zu und wartet anschließend auf ein
Signal.  Nach Beendigung wird die Menge der maskierten Signale
wiederhergestellt.
.I Sigmask
wird für gewöhnlich auf 0 gesetzt, wenn keine Signale blockiert werden
sollen.
.B Sigpause
wird stets durch einen Interrupt beendet, wobei \-1 zurückgeliefert
wird und
.I errno
auf
.B EINTR
gesetzt ist.
.SH HISTORIE
Die Funktion
.B sigpause
erschien in BSD 4.3 und wurde mißgebilligt.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigblock (2),
.BR sigvec (2).
