.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" German translation by René Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de)
.\"
.TH SIGRETURN 2 "21 August 1995" "Linux 1.3.20" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sigreturn \- Rückkehr vom Signalhandler und Aufräumen des Stacks
.SH ZUSAMMENFASSUNG
.BI "int sigreturn(unsigned long " __unused );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Wenn der Linux Kernel einen Eintrag für einen Signalhandler im Stack
ablegt, wird ein Aufruf von
.B sigreturn
eingebaut, sodaß der Signalhandler bei Beendigung
.B sigreturn
aufruft. Dieser Aufruf sorgt für das Aufräumen des Stacks, womit der
Prozeß mit dem Kontext so fortfahren kann, der bei der Unterbrechung
durch das Signal vorlag.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B sigreturn
kehrt nie zurück.
.SH WARNUNG
Die Funktion
.B sigreturn
wird vom Kernel dazu benutzt, Signalhandler zu implementieren. Sie
sollte
.B niemals
direkt aufgerufen werden. Darüber hinaus variiert die Benutzung des
Argumentes 
.I __unused
je nach der benutzten Rechnerarchitektur.
.SH "KOMPATIBEL ZU"
.B sigreturn
ist Linux-spezifisch.
.SH DATEIEN
/usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/signal.c
.br
/usr/src/linux/arch/alpha/kernel/entry.S
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR kill "(2), " signal "(2), " signal (7)
