.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)socketpair.2        6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:49:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\" Translated to German Sun Jul 28 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH SOCKETPAIR 2 "21. Juni 1996" "BSD" "Systemaufrufe"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
socketpair - generiert zwei verbundene Sockets
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int socketpair(int " d ", int " type ", int " protocol ", int " sv [2]);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Aufruf
.B socketpair
generiert zwei unbenannte, miteinander verbundene Sockets.
.I D
bezeichnet die Domain,
.I typ
den Typ der Sockets und
.I protocol 
definiert das Protokoll, das nicht angegeben werden muss.
Die Deskriptoren der Sockets werden in 
.I sv[0]
und 
.I sv[1]
zurückgegeben.  Die beiden Sockets können nicht unterschieden werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Im Erfolgsfall wird 0 zurückgegeben, bei einem Fehler -1 und
.I errno 
wird gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
.TP 0.8i
.B EMFILE
Dieser Prozess benutzt zuviele Deskriptoren
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
Die angegebene Adressfamilie wird vom Rechner nicht unterstützt
.TP
.B EPROTONOSUPPORT
Das angegebene Protokoll wird nicht unterstützt
.TP
.B EOPNOSUPPORT
Das angegebene Protokoll unterstützt nicht das Anlegen von Socketpairs
.TP
.B EFAULT
Die Adresse
.I sv
liegt nicht im gültigen Adressbereich des Prozesses
.SH GESCHICHTE
Die Funktion
.B socketpair
tritt das erste Mal im BSD 4.2 auf.
.SH BUGS
Dieser Aufruf ist zurzeit nur für 
.B UNIX-Domaens
implementiert.  [Gilt das auch für Linux?]
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR pipe (2).
