.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\" Modified Wed May 22 19:57:25 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@north.de)
.\"
.TH IPC 2 "22. April 1996" "GNU" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
socketcall - Systemaufrufe für Sockets
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.BI "int socketcall(int call, unsigned long *args);"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Socketcall ist die allgemeine Sprungadresse im Kernel für die
Systemaufrufe der Sockets.
.I call
beschreibt, welche Socketfunktion aufgerufen werden soll, 
.I args
ist ein Zeiger auf einen Speicherblock, in dem die Argumente
stehen, die vom Aufruf weitergeleitet werden.

Benutzerprogramme sollten die Funktionen mit ihren herkömmlichen
Namen aufrufen.  Nur Programmierer von Standardbibliotheken oder
Kernel-Hacker brauchen die Funktion
.B socketcall
zu kennen.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR getpeername  (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR recv (2),
.BR recvfrom (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR sendto (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2).
