.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), 28. März 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:02:47 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added reference to 'bdflush(2)'.
.\"
.\" Translated into German by Wolfgang Jung (woju@keep.in-berlin.de) on
.\" Fri Mar 26 15:56:15 MET 1996
.\"
.TH SYNC 2 "15. April 1995" "Linux 1.2.4" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
sync \- den Buffer-Cache an die Festplatten übergeben
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int sync(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B sync
Zuerst werden die Inodes in den Buffer-Cache geschrieben, danach wird
der Buffer-Cache an den Plattenspeicher übergeben.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B sync
gibt immer 0 zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH EINSCHRÄNKUNGEN
\fBsync()\fP erzeugt nur eine Schreibanforderung, so kann die Funktion
zurückkehren, bevor der eigentliche Schreibvorgang abgeschlossen ist.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8).

