.\ Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\
.\ Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), Märzch 28, 1992
.\
.\ Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\ manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\ preserved on all copies.
.\
.\ Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\ manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\ entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\ permission notice identical to this one
.\ 
.\ Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\ manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\ responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\ the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\ have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\ which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\ professionally.
.\ 
.\ Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\ the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\
.\ Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\ Modified Sat Juli 24 14:29:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\ Modified 961203 by aeb@cwi.nl
.\
.\ Translated into German by Ralf Demmer, Translation & Consulting
.\ rdemmer@rdemmer.de, http://www.rdemmer.de
.\ Berlin, Dienstag, 2. März 1999
.\ 
.\
.TH TIMES 2 24 Juliy 1993 Linux 0.99.11 Linux Programmer's Manual
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
times \- Abfrage der Prozesszeiten
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/times.h>
.sp
.BI clock_t times(struct tms * buf );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B times
speichert die aktuellen Prozesszeiten in 
.IR buf .  

.I struct tms
ist definiert in 
.IR /usr/include/sys/times.h :
.sp
.nf
struct  tms  {
.in 20
clock_t tms_utime;  /* Benutzer-Zeit */
clock_t tms_stime;  /* System-Zeit */
clock_t tms_cutime; /* Benutzer-Zeit der Child-Prozesse */
clock_t tms_cstime; /* System-Zeit der Child-Prozesse */
};
.in 10
.fi
.PP
.B times
gibt die Anzahl der Zeittakte zurück, die seit dem letzten Neustart des Systems vergangen sind.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR time (1),  getrusage (2),  wait (2)
ÿ