.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Updated names and version numbers to Linux 1.2.4 / man-pages-1.6.
.\"   Moved unimplemented kernel calls to new man page.
.\"   Created new man page for obsolete calls, so don't talk about them here.
.\"   Removed BUGS as they've been fixed.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Updated for Linux 1.3.6 / man-pages-1.7.
.\" aeb, 950825: all system calls have been documented!
.\" aeb, 960414: this is true again.
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH UNDOCUMENTED 2 "5. Juni 1996" "Linux 1.3.86" "Systemaufrufe"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
keine - undokumentierte Systemaufrufe
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
undokumentierte Systemaufrufe
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Im Linuxkern Version 1.3.88 sind 163 Systemaufrufe in 
.IR /usr/include/asm/unistd.h
aufgelistet.
Diese Seite beachtet die Aufrufe, die im Kernel implementiert
sind, die aber nicht in Handbuchseiten beschrieben werden.
Einige Funktionen haben noch keinen Prototyp in den libc Dateien.
.SH "DRINGENDE BITTE"
Wenn ihr Informationen über diese Systemaufrufe habt, schaut Euch bitte
die Kernelquellen an und schreibt eine Handbuchseite, angelehnt an andere
Handbuchseiten des 2. Kapitels. Diese sendet bitte in englischer
Sprache an
.BR "Andries Brouwer " (\fIaeb@cwi.nl\fP)
oder in deutscher Sprache an
.BR "Martin Schulze " (\fIjoey@linux.de\fP),
damit wir sie in die nächste Ausgabe des Linux Documentation Projects
aufnehmen können.
.SH STATUS
Undokumentiert sind zur Zeit:

fdatasync,
sched_setparam,
sched_getparam,
sched_setscheduler,
sched_getscheduler,
sched_yield,
sched_get_priority_max,
sched_get_priority_min,
sched_rr_get_interval.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR unimplemented (2).
