.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 'ftime' is implemented as a library function.
.\" 'ulimit' is implemented as a library function.
.\"
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 29 12:01:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 "29. Juni 1996" "Linux 1.2.4" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
afs_syscall, break, gtty, lock, mpx, prof, stty, ulimit
\- nicht implementierte Systemaufrufe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
Nicht implementierte Systemaufrufe.
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Diese Systemaufrufe sind nicht implementiert im Linux-Kernel 1.2.4.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Diese Systemaufrufe geben immer \-1 zurück und setzen
.I errno
auf
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR undocumented (2).
