.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" German Version (c) 1996 Hanno Wagner (wagner@bidnix.bid.fh-hannover.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:34:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" German Version Tue 30 Apr 15:24 1996 by Hanno Wagner
.\" (wagner@bidnix.bid.fh-hannover.de
.\"
.TH USELIB 2 "30. April 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
uselib \- wählt eine dynamisch gelinkte Bibliothek aus
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" library );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
\fBuselib\fP wählt die shared library aus, die von 
diesem Prozeß benutzt wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Wenn der Befehl erfolgreich war, wird 0 zurückgegeben.
Wenn ein Fehler auftrat, wird \-1 ausgegeben und
.I errno
wird gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
Zusätzlich zu all den Fehlercodes, die von 
.BR open (2)
und
.BR mmap (2)
zurückgegeben werden, können auch folgende auftreten:

.TP
.B ENOEXEC
Die Datei, die durch
.I library
spezifiziert wird, ist nicht ausführbar oder hat nicht die richtigen
magischen Nummern.
.TP
.B EACCES
Die Bibliothek
.I library
ist nicht lesbar (Der Prozeß hat keine Leserechte).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
\fBuselib()\fP ist Linuxspezifisch.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR open (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ar (1),
.BR ld (1).
