.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 01 12:15:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 "1. Juni 1996" "Linux" "Systemaufrufe"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
utime, utimes \- ändere Zugriffs- und/oder Modifikations-Zeiten eines inode
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" filename ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B utime
ändert die Zugriffs- und Modifikations-Zeiten des inode, der durch
.I filename
angegeben ist, in die Felder
.IR actime " und " modtime
von 
.I buf .
Wenn
.I buf
.BR NULL 
ist, dann werden Zugriffs- und Modifikations-Zeiten auf die aktuelle Zeit
gesetzt
Die Struktur
.I utimbuf
ist:

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* Zugriffszeit */
        time_t modtime; /* Modifikationszeit */
};
.fi
.RE

In den Linux DLL 4.4.1 - Bibliotheken ist
.B utimes
nur ein Umschlag für
.BR utime :
.IR tvp [0]. tv_sec
ist
.IR actime ,
und
.IR tvp [1]. tv_sec
ist
.IR modtime .
Die Struktur 
.I timeval
ist:

.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* Sekunden */
        long    tv_usec;        /* Microsekunden */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben.  Im Fehlerfall wird \-1 zurückgegeben und
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
Andere Fehler können Auftreten.

.TP 0.8i
.B EACCESS
Zugriff in die Datei zu schreiben wurde verweigert.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.I filename
existiert nicht.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
.BR utime :
SVID, POSIX
.br
.BR utimes :
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR stat (2).
