.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Translated into German by Ralf Demmer, Translation & Consulting
.\" rdemmer@rdemmer.de, http://www.rdemmer.de
.\" Berlin, 24.5.1999
.\"
.TH VM86 2 "17 July 1997" "Linux 2.1.15" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
vm86old, vm86 \- in den Virtual-8086-Modus übergehen
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <sys/vm86.h>
.sp
.BI "int vm86old(struct vm86_struct * " info );
.sp
.BI "int vm86(unsigned long " fn ", struct vm86plus_struct * " v86 );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Der Systemaufruf 
.B vm86
wurde mit Linux 0.97p2 eingeführt. Unter Linux 2.1.15 und 2.0.28 wurde er in 
.BR vm86old ,
umbenannt und 
.B vm86
eingeführt. Die Definition der `struct vm86_struct' wurde in den Versionen 1.1.8 und 1.1.9 verändert.
.LP
Diese Aufrufe veranlassen den Prozeß in den VM86-Modus überzugehen und werden von 
.BR dosemu 
verwendet.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Bei Erfolg wird NULL zurückgegeben. Bei Auftreten eines Fehlers wird \-1 zurückgegeben und 
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
(für
.BR vm86old )
.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
ist ein gespeicherter Kernel-Stack vorhanden. (Dies ist ein Sicherheitstest 
des Kernel, der gespeicherte Stack sollte nur im Vm86-Modus selbst vorhanden sein.)
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Dieser Aufruf ist spezifisch für Linux auf Intel-Prozessoren und sollte nicht in 
Programmen verwendet werden, die portierbar sein sollen.
