.TH gcore "1" "Feb 2020" "gdb 9.1" "GNU Tools"
.SH NAME
gcore \- Generate core files for running processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcore
[-a] [-o \fIfilename\fR] \fIpid[s]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
gcore generates a core file for the process(es) specified by process IDs,
\fIpid[s]\fR. By default, each core file is written to core.\fIpid\fR, in the
current directory.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
(Linux only) ignore /proc/PID/coredump_filter and also dump memory mappings
marked with the 'VM_DONTDUMP' flag. See info node Core File Generation for
longer explanation.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfilename\fR
write core file to \fIfilename\fR if one PID, or \fIfilename.pid\fR if
multiple PIDs, instead of default core.\fIpid\fR
.SH COPYING
Copyright \(co 2003, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2018, 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on
all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of  this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be included in translations approved
by the Free Software Foundation instead of in the original English.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gdb (1),
.BR core (5)
