.TH pbmtolj 1 "22 April 2000"
.IX pbmtolj
.SH NAME
pbmtolj - convert a portable bitmap into HP LaserJet format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbmtolj
.RB [ -resolution
.IR N ]
.RB [ -float ]
.RB [ -noreset ]
.RB [ -packbits ]
.RB [ -delta ]
.RB [ -compress ]
.RI [ pbmfile ]
.RB [ -copies
.IR N ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a PBM image as input.  Produces HP LaserJet data as output.
.IX "HP LaserJet"
.PP
Note that there is no ljtopbm tool.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -resolution
Specifies the resolution of the output device, in dpi.
Typical values are 75, 100, 150, 300, and 600.
The default is 75.
.TP
.B -float
Suppresses positioning information.
The default is to write the sequence 
.I ESC & l 0 E
to the output file.
.TP
.B -noreset
Prevents pbmtolj from writing the reset sequences to the beginning
and end of the output file.
.TP
.B -packbits
Enables use of TIFF packbits compression.
.TP
.B -delta
Enables use of delta-between-rows compression.
.TP
.B -compress
Enables use of both TIFF packbits, and delta-between-rows compression.
.TP
.B -copies
Specifies the the number of copies. The default is 1.  This option controls
the "number of copies" printer control; 
.B pbmtolj
generates only one copy of the image.
.PP
All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pbm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1988 by Jef Poskanzer and Michael Haberler.
.B -float
and
.B -noreset
options added by Wim Lewis.
.B -delta, -packbits,
and
.B -compress
options added by Dave Platt.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
