.TH pbmtonokia 1 "26 June 2001"
.IX pbmtonokia
.SH NAME
pbmtonokia - convert a portable bitmap to Nokia Smart Messaging Formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbmtonokia [options]
.RI [ pbmfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a portable bitmap as input.
Produces a Nokia Smart Messaging (hexcode, .nok, .ngg) file as output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -fmt
Specifies the output format (default is HEX_NOL).
.TP
HEX_NOL
Nokia Operator Logo as (uploadable) hexcode.
Use option -net to specify network code.
.TP
HEX_NGG
Nokia Group Graphic as (uploadable) hexcode.
.TP
HEX_NMP
Nokia Picture Message as (uploadable) hexcode.
Use option -txt to specify optional text message.
.TP
NOL
Nokia Operator Logo as .nol format. This is editable by the Group-Graphic Editor from
Kessler Wireless Design (www.kessler-design.com)
.TP
NGG
Nokia Group Graphic as .ngg format. This is editable by the Group-Graphic Editor from
Kessler Wireless Design (www.kessler-design.com)
.TP
.B -net
Specifies the 6 hex-digit operator network code for Operator Logos (Default is 62F210 = D1,Germany).
.TP
.B -txt
Specifies the text message for Picture Messages. Default is no text message.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Currently limited to rows<=255 and columns<=255. Supports only b/w graphics,
not animated.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pbm (5), 
.B Nokia Smart Messaging Specification (http://forum.nokia.com)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2001 Tim Ruehsen <tim.ruehsen@openmediasystem.de>.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
