.TH ppmtowinicon 1 "22 May 2000"
.IX ppmtowinicon

.SH NAME
ppmtowinicon \- convert 1 or more portable pixmaps into a Windows .ico 
file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppmtowinicon
.RI [ \-andpgms ]
.RI [ \-output\ output.ico ]
.RI [ ppmfiles ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads one or more portable pixmaps as input.
Produces a Microsoft Windows .ico file as output.

A Windows icon contains 1 or more images, at different resolutions
and color depths. 

Microsoft recommends including at least the following formats in each
icon (size and bits-per-pixel):
.PP
16 x 16 - 4 bpp
.PP
32 x 32 - 4 bpp
.PP
48 x 48 - 8 bpp
.PP
Default I/O is STDIN/STDOUT.
.IX WINICON
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-andpgms
If this option is given, every second file is read as an "and mask" to be
used by windows for transparency data for the previous image. (These are
set to fully opaque by default). The and mask is a PGM image, where any
pixel with maxval intensity means opaque and any other pixel means not
opaque. Note that as with all Netpbm programs, you may use a PBM file here
and it will be used as if it were the equivalent PGM.

The and mask is like an alpha mask, except for what it signifies in the
"not opaque" areas. In the usual case, the foreground image is black in
those areas, and in that case the areas are fully transparent -- the
background shows through the icon. But in general, a not opaque pixel
signifies that the background and foreground should be merged as follows:
The intensities of the color components in the forgeground and background
are represented as binary numbers, then corresponding bits of the
background and foreground intensities are exlusive-or'ed together. So there
is a sort of reverse video effect. 

.TP
.B \-output output.ico
File to write.  By default, the icon is written to stdout.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR winicontoppm (1),
.BR ppm (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2000 by Lee Benfield.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without
.\" express or implied warranty.
