.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.
.TH RLETOPNM 1 "13 April 2000" 1
.SH NAME
rletopnm \- convert a Utah Raster Tools RLE image file into a PNM image file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rletopnm
\fR[\fB--alphaout=\fR{\fIalpha-filename\fR,\fB-\fR}]
.RB [ --headerdump | -h ]
.RB [ --verbose | -v ]
.RB [ --plain | -p ]
.RI [ rlefile | \fB- ]

All options may be abbreviated to their minimum unique abbreviation and
options and arguments may be in any order.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts Utah Raster Toolkit RLE image files into PNM
image files.
.B rletopnm
handles four types of RLE files: Grayscale (8 bit data, no color map),
Pseudocolor (8 bit data with a color map), Truecolor (24 bit data with color
map), and Directcolor (24 bit data, no color map).  
.B rletopnm
generates a PPM file for all these cases except for the Grayscale file, for
which 
.B rletopnm
generates a PGM file.

.I rlefile
is the RLE input file.  If it is absent or 
.BR - , 
the input comes from Standard Input.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --alphaout= alpha-filename
.B rletopnm 
creates a PGM (portable graymap) file containing the alpha channel
values in the input image.  If the input image doesn't contain an alpha
channel, the 
.I alpha-filename
file contains all zero (transparent) alpha values.  If you don't specify
.BR --alphaout ,
.B rletopnm
does not generate an alpha file, and if the input image has an alpha channel,
.B rletopnm
simply discards it.

If you specify
.B -
as the filename, 
.B rletopnm
writes the alpha output to Standard Output and discards the image.

See 
.BR pnmcomp (1)
for one way to use the alpha output file.
.TP
.B --verbose
This option causes 
.B rletopnm 
to operate in verbose mode.  It prints messages about what it's doing, 
including the contents of the RLE image header, to Standard Error.
.TP
.B --headerdump
This option causes
.B rletopnm
to operate in header dump mode.  It prints the contents of the RLE
image header to Standard Error, but does not produce any other output.
.TP
.B --plain
This option causes the PNM output file to be in the "plain" (text) format,
instead of the default "raw" (binary) format.  See
.BR ppm (5)
and
.BR pgm (5)
for details on the difference.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B rletopnm \-\-verbose lenna.rle >lenna.ppm
While running in verbose mode, convert lenna.rle to PPM format and
store the resulting image as lenna.ppm.
.TP
.B rletopnm \-\-headerdump file.rle
Dump the header information of the RLE file called file.rle.
.TP
.B rletopnm --alphaout=dartalpha.pgm dart.rle >dart.ppm
Convert RLE file dart.rle to PPM format as dart.ppm.  Store the alpha channel
of dart.rle as dartalpha.pgm (if dart.rle doesn't have an alpha channel,
store a fully transparent alpha mask as dartalpha.pgm).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pnmtorle (1),
.BR pnmconvol (1),
.BR pnm (5),
.BR ppm (5),
.BR pgm (5),
.BR urt (1),
.BR RLE (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Wes Barris
.br
Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
.br
Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.

Modifications by Eric Haines to support raw and plain formats.

Modifications by Bryan Henderson to create alpha files and use mnemonic
options.
