.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sgml2latex.1
.\"
.TH SGML2LATEX 1 "18 May 2000"
.SH NAME
sgml2latex \- create LaTeX, DVI, PostScript or PDF output from a LinuxDoc DTD
SGML source file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgml2latex [generic-option...]
.BI [--output= tex | dvi | ps | pdf]
.B [--bibtex] [--makeindex]
.BI [--pagenumber= n ]
.B --quick
.BI [--latex= hlatexp | platex]
.BI [--dvips= dvips | dvi2ps]
.BI [--verbosity=n]
.IR file [.sgml]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sgml2latex
is an old and obsoleted form of the latex converter command
of LinuxDoc-Tools.  It is recommended to switch the new form
.B linuxdoc -B latex
now.
It converts a LinuxDoc DTD SGML source file to LaTeX output, using the
.BR nsgmls (1)
or
.BR onsgmls (1)
parser, and the
.BR sgmlsasp (1)
translator.  Using the LaTeX output, and the
.BR latex (1)
text formatter, you can then create DVI output, and PostScript output
using the
.BR dvips (1)
converter. Output will appear in
.I file.tex
for LaTeX output,
.I file.dvi
for DVI output, or
.I file.ps
for PostScript output,
where
.I file
is the name of the SGML source file.
.LP
Using  the LaTeX output, and the
.BR pdflatex (1)
text formatter, you can then create a nice PDF output, suitable for
viewing with PDF viewers as
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR acroread (1)
or
.BR ghostview (1).
.LP
The attribute/value pair "output=latex2e" is set for conditionals.
.SH OPTIONS
.B sgml2latex
accepts all the generic options described in
.BR linuxdoc (1),
and the following specific options:
.IP "--output=\fIfmt\fR, -o"
Specify the desired output format.  The specifier
.I fmt
may be ``tex'', ``dvi'', ``ps'', or ``pdf''.
.PP
Note: This version does not overwrite/remove the intermediate
files: tex file for dvi output, or tex/dvi files for ps output.
This is different behavior from the original SGML-Tools 1.0.9,
so you are warned here.
.IP "--bibtex, -b"
Process the generated TeX with
.BR bibtex (1).
.IP "--makeindex, -m"
Generate a TeX index file suitable for processing with
.BR makeindex (1)
from and <idx> and <cdx> tags present in the SGML source.
.IP "--pagenumber, -n"
Set the starting page number in the output DVI or PS file.
.IP "--quick, -q"
Do only one pass of LaTeX formatting.  This is often not sufficient
to produce final output (because of references, etc.) but is useful
for spotting TeX errors and justification problems.
.IP "--pass, -P"
The argument of the pass option is inserted just after the LaTeX
preamble generated by the document-type tag.
Specify the desired output format.  The specifier
.I fmt
may be ``tex'', ``dvi'', ``ps'', or ``pdf''.
.IP "--latex=\fIalternate_latex_command\fR, -x"
This option is currently for Korean and Japanese.
The
.I alternate_latex_command
can be ``latex'' (default), ``hlatexp'' (for Korean), ``platex''
or ``jlatex'' (for Japanese).
This option can be used to render Korean document using HLaTeXp,
or to render Japanese document using pLaTeX/jLaTeX.
If not, HLaTeX should be installed to render Korean document.
On the other hand, Japanese document can be rendered with jLaTeX
 (which is the default when ``\-c nippon'' is specified), so if you
already have jLaTeX, you may not need to install the pLaTeX.
.IP "--dvips=\fIalternate_dvips_command\fR, -s"
This option is currently for Japanese.
The
.I alternate_dvips_command
can be ``dvips'' or ``dvi2ps''.  If you don't know this, then
you may not need this.
.IP "--verbosity, -V"
Set verbosity. '0' (default) will show info about LaTeX run only
in case of errors. '1' will always show info for last run. '2'
will show info for all runs.
.IP file
The SGML source file, named either
.I file
or
.I file.sgml
.SH FILES
Many files and executables in /usr/share/linuxdoc-tools and /usr/bin are used.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written by
Greg Hankins <greg.hankins@cc.gatech.edu>, based on scripts by Tom Gordon and
Alexander Horz. Later rewritten by Cees de Groot <cg@cdegroot.com>.
PDF patches by Juan Jose Amor <jjamor@hispalinux.es>.
Currently maintained by Taketoshi Sano <sano@debian.org> for Linuxdoc-Tools.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR linuxdoc (1),
.BR sgml2html (1),
.BR sgml2info (1),
.BR sgml2lyx (1),
.BR sgml2rtf (1),
.BR sgml2txt (1),
.BR sgmlcheck (1).
