.TH ximtoppm 1 "April 2, 2000"
.IX ximtoppm
.SH NAME
ximtoppm \- convert an Xim file into a portable pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ximtoppm
\fR[\fB--alphaout=\fR{\fIalpha-filename\fR,\fB-\fR}]
.RI [ ximfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads an Xim file as input.
.IX Xim
.IX "X window system"
Produces a portable pixmap as output.
The Xim toolkit is included in the contrib tree of the X.V11R4 release.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --alphaout= alpha-filename
.B ximtoppm 
creates a PGM (portable graymap) file containing the alpha channel
values in the input image.  If the input image doesn't contain an alpha
channel, the 
.I alpha-filename
file contains all zero (transparent) alpha values.  If you don't specify
.BR --alphaout ,
.B ximtoppm
does not generate an alpha file, and if the input image has an alpha channel,
.B ximtoppm
simply discards it.

If you specify
.B -
as the filename, 
.B ximtoppm
writes the alpha output to Standard Output and discards the image.

Actually, an Xim image can contain an arbitrary fourth channel -- it need 
not be an Alpha channel.  
.B ximtoppm
extracts any fourth channel it finds as described above; it doesn't matter
if it is an alpha channel or not.

See 
.BR pnmcomp (1)
for one way to use the alpha output file.

.PP
All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pnmcomp (1),
.BR ppm (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
