.\"  Copyright (c) 1990-2013 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  See the accompanying file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-02 or later
.\"  (the contents of which are also included in unzip.h) for terms of use.
.\"  If, for some reason, all these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
.\"  also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\"
.\" funzip.1 by Greg Roelofs and others.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH FUNZIP 1L "06 Nov 2013 (v4.10)" "Info-ZIP"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Define .EX/.EE (for multiline user-command examples; normal Courier font).
.\" Must follow ".TH"; otherwise macros get redefined.
.de EX
.in +4n
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft R
.fi
.in -4n
..
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
funzip \- filter for extracting from a ZIP archive in a pipe
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfunzip\fP [\fB\-\fP\fIpassword\fP] [\fIarchive[.zip|.gz]\fP]
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP [\fB\-\fP\fIpassword\fP]
Optional password to be used if ZIP archive is encrypted.  Encryption
support can be disabled at build time.  See DESCRIPTION for more
details.
.IP [\fIarchive[.zip|.gz]\fP]
Optional input archive file specification.  See DESCRIPTION for details.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfUnZip\fP without a file argument acts as a filter; that is, it
assumes that a ZIP archive (or a \fIgzip\fP'd(1) file) is being piped
into standard input, and it extracts the first (non-directory) member
from the archive to standard output (stdout).  When standard input
(stdin) is a terminal (tty) device, \fIfUnZip\fP assumes that this
cannot be a stream of (binary) compressed data and shows a short usage
guide, instead.  If there is a file argument, then input is read from
the specified file instead of from stdin.
.PP
A password for encrypted zip files can be specified on the command line
(preceding the file name, if any) by prefixing the password with a
hyphen.  Note that this constitutes a security risk on many systems;
running processes are often visible via simple commands (e.g.,
\fIps\fP(1) under Unix), and command-line histories can be read.  If the
first entry of the zip file is encrypted and no password is specified on
the command line, then the user is prompted for a password and the
password is not echoed on the console.
.PP
Given the limitation on single-member extraction, \fIfUnZip\fP is most
useful in conjunction with a secondary archiver program such as
\fItar\fP(1).  The following section includes an example illustrating
this usage in the case of disk backups to tape.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
Use \fIfUnZip\fP to extract the first (non-directory) member of the
archive "test.zip", and to pipe it into \fImore\fP(1):
.PP
.EX
funzip test.zip | more
.EE
.PP
Use \fIfUnZip\fP to test the first (non-directory) member of "test.zip"
(with any error messages sent to standard error (stderr)):
.PP
.EX
funzip test.zip > /dev/null
.EE
.PP
Use \fIZip\fP and \fIfUnZip\fP in place of \fIcompress\fP(1) and
\fIzcat\fP(1) (or \fIgzip\fP(1L) and \fIgzcat\fP(1L)) for tape backups:
.PP
.EX
tar cf \- . | zip \-7 | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=8k
dd if=/dev/nrst0 ibs=8k | funzip | tar xf \-
.EE
.PP
(where, for example, nrst0 is a SCSI tape drive).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH BUGS
When piping an encrypted file into \fImore\fP and allowing \fIfUnZip\fP
to prompt for password, the terminal may sometimes be reset to a
non-echo mode.  This is apparently due to a race condition between the
two programs; \fIfUnZip\fP changes the terminal mode to non-echo before
\fImore\fP reads its state, and \fImore\fP then "restores" the
terminal to this mode before exiting.  To recover, run \fIfUnZip\fP on
the same file but redirect to /dev/null rather than piping into
\fImore\fP.  After prompting again for the password, \fIfUnZip\fP should
reset the terminal properly.
.PP
There is no way to extract any member except the first (non-directory)
from a ZIP archive, but \fIfUnZip\fP will skip archive members which are
directories, and extract the first member which is not a directory.
.PP
Only Deflate compression and Traditional ZIP encryption are supported.
.PP
The functionality of \fIfUnZip\fP should be incorporated into
\fIUnZip\fP itself (in some future release).
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIgzip\fP(1L), \fIunzip\fP(1L), \fIunzipsfx\fP(1L), \fIzip\fP(1L),
\fIzipcloak\fP(1L), \fIzipinfo\fP(1L), \fIzipnote\fP(1L), \fIzipsplit\fP(1L)
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH URL
.TP
The Info-ZIP main Web page is:
.EX
\fChttp://www.info-zip.org/\fR
.EE
.TP
FTP access is available, too:
.EX
\fCftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR
.EE
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Adler (Info-ZIP)
