.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sgmlpre.1
.\"
.TH SGMLPRE "1"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
sgmlpre \- handle SGML conditionalization for SGML-tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgmlpre
.I "[options] ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR sgmlpre
commands.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page for sgmlpre.
.PP
.B sgmlpre
is a program that handle SGML conditionalization for SGML-tools
.PP
It is used by other programs in sgml-tools (v1), and usually
normal user does not need to use this program directly by himself.
.PP
Following is quoted from the header in the source code.
.TP
(Begin Quotes)

.B sgmlpre
-- handle SGML conditionalization for SGML-tools
by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>, 3 Nov 1997

Filter SGML according to conditionalizing markup.  Argument/value pairs
from the command line are matched against the attributes of <#if> and
<#unless> tags.  Spans between <#if>/</#if> are passed through unaltered
if there is no attribute mismatch; spans between <#unless></#unless> are
passed if there is at least one attribute mismatch.  An attribute mismatch
happens  if an attribute occurs in both the command-line arguments and the
tag, but the values do not match.  Value matching is by string equality,
except that "|" is interpreted as an alternation character.  Even if a span
is not passed through, its newlines are (this to avoid messing up the
line  numbers in error messages).

This lexer requires flex.  Limitations; attribute names may only be
256 chars long, values may be only 16384 (YY_BUF_SIZE) characters long.
Doesn't do checking that only </if> matches <if> and </unless> matches
<unless> (that would need a stack and introduce another limit).
.TP
(End Quotes)

.SH OPTIONS
The program does not support normal command line options.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
For a complete description, see the header in the source archive.
.SH AUTHOR
.B sgmlpre
was written by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>, 3 Nov 1997.

This manual page was written by Taketoshi Sano <sano@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
