.\"  Copyright (c) 1990-2017 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  See the accompanying file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-02 or later
.\"  (the contents of which are also included in unzip.h) for terms of use.
.\"  If, for some reason, all these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
.\"  also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\"
.\" unzip.1 by Greg Roelofs, Fulvio Marino, Jim van Zandt and others.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH UNZIP 1L "2016-09-29 (v6.1)" "Info-ZIP"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Define .EX/.EE (for multiline user-command examples; normal Courier font).
.\" Must follow ".TH"; otherwise macros get redefined.
.de EX
.in +4n
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft R
.fi
.in -4n
..
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
unzip \- extract, list, or test compressed files in a ZIP archive.
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unzip
.RB "[ " unzip_options " ]"
.RI "[ " file[.zip] " ]"
.RI "[ " member " ... ]"
.br
.B "unzip \-Z"
.RB "[ " zipinfo_options " ]"
.RI "[ " file[.zip] " ]"
.RI "[ " member " ... ]"
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIUnZip\fP extracts, lists, or tests files in a ZIP archive (an archive
format commonly used on many different systems).  The default behavior
(with no options) is to extract into the current directory (and
subdirectories below it) all files from the specified ZIP archive.  A
companion program, \fIZip\fP, creates ZIP archives.
.PP
Info-ZIP \fIUnZip\fP and \fIZip\fP were intended to be compatible with
archives created by PKWARE's \fIPKZIP\fP and \fIPKUNZIP\fP programs
(originally for MS-DOS), but in many cases the program options or
default behaviors differ.  Nowadays, many other programs are available
which work with ZIP archives.
.PP
Note: Beginning with \fIUnZip\fP version 6.1, the old command-line
parser has been replaced by one like the one used in \fIZip\fP (version
3.0 and later).  One significant change is that \fIoption negation now
uses a TRAILING hyphen ("\-")\fP, so, for example, \fB\-B\-\fP negates
the \fB\-B\fP option.  This change was made because a double hyphen
("\-\-") now introduces a long option.
.PP
To display the basic built-in help, use the command:
.EX
unzip \-h
.EE
To display the extended built-in help, use the command:
.EX
unzip \-hh
.EE
The built-in help may be more current than this manual page, especially
between full product releases.
.PP
To list all available options for a particular \fIUnZip\fP program, use
the command:
.EX
unzip \-\-show\-options
.EE
This report will not include any options which are available only on
other system types, or options which must be enabled at build-time but
were not enabled in the particular \fIUnZip\fP program being used.
.PP
[VMS] On VMS, alternate program editions with VMS-style command-line
interfaces are also available.  For details, see the VMS-specific
documentation.
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I file[.zip]
File path/name of a ZIP archive.  A wildcard name may be used to specify
multiple ZIP archives to be processed in one command.  On VMS systems,
any of the standard wildcards for a directory/file specification may be
used: "...", "*", or "%" (or, since VMS V7.2, "?").  On non-VMS systems,
a wildcard name may be used only in the filename part of the file
specification, not in the directory part, and, on Unix, characters which
are special to the shell must be escaped or quoted to protect them from
processing by the shell.  If a wildcard is used, then each matching
archive file is processed in an order determined by the operating
system or shell (or file system).  Non-VMS wildcard expressions are
similar to those supported (for "globbing") in commonly used Unix shells
(\fIcsh\fP, \fIksh\fP, \fIsh\fP, and so on) and may contain:
.RS
.IP *
Matches a sequence of 0 or more characters.
.IP ?
Matches exactly 1 character.
.IP [.\|.\|.]
Matches any single character found inside the brackets.  Ranges are
specified by a beginning character, a hyphen, and an ending
character.  If an exclamation point ("!") or a caret ("^") follows the
left bracket, then the range of characters within the brackets is
complemented.  That is, anything \fIexcept\fP the characters inside the
brackets is considered a match.  To specify a literal left bracket, use
the three-character sequence "[[]".
.RE
.IP
If no wildcard matches are found, then the specification is assumed to
be a literal filename.  If that also fails, then the
suffix "\fC\.zip\fR" and/or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" is appended, and the resulting
name is tried.  (For this reason, if a non-existent file is specified,
then the resulting error message may mention these other names with
their "\fC\.zip\fR" or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" suffixes.)
.IP
Note that a "\fC\.zip\fR" or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" name ending on an archive is
merely a convention, not a requirement.  For example, a self-extracting
ZIP archive named "\fCfred\fR" or "\fCfred.exe\fR" could be processed as
if it were an ordinary archive; just specify the actual file name with
its actual name ending (if any), whatever that may be.
.IP
Strictly speaking, an archive name is optional, but, except in a special
case like "\fCunzip\ \-v\fR", it's difficult to do much useful work
without specifying an archive.
.TP
.IR member " ..."
An optional list of archive members to be processed, separated by
spaces.  If no member list is specified, then all archive members are
processed.  Wildcard patterns (like those used for an archive file name
on Unix, described above) may be used to match multiple members.  Again,
be sure to quote expressions that would otherwise be expanded or
modified by the operating system or shell.
.IP
On Mac OS X systems, file attributes, a resource fork, and similar data
may be stored in a separate AppleDouble archive member which has a "._"
name prefix.  When restoring files with such attributes (no
\fB\-J\fP/\fB\-\-junk-attrs\fP option, and the destination file system
supports such attributes), if the user specifies only the main archive
member, then \fIUnZip\fP should automatically handle the corresponding
AppleDouble archive member.  If \fB\-J\fP/\fB\-\-junk-attrs\fP is
specified, or the destination file system does not support such file
attributes (so that an AppleDouble archive member will be stored as a
separate file), then AppleDouble archive members are not handled
automatically, and the user must specify patterns which explicitly
include any desired AppleDouble archive members.
.IP
On VMS systems, the wildcard rules used for archive members are the same
as on Unix systems.  VMS wildcard rules are used only for archive file
specifications, not for archive member patterns.
.\" =========================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fIUnZip\fP's usage summary ("\fCunzip\ \-h\fR") is kept short to try to
accommodate small terminal/emulator screens, so it's normally
incomplete.  The option list below should be complete.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS (ZipInfo Mode)
.PD 0
.B \-Z
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-zipinfo\-mode
\fIZipInfo\fP mode.  If the first option on the command line is
\fB\-Z\fP, then the program runs in \fIZipInfo\fP mode.  Remaining
options are interpreted as \fIZipInfo\fP options.  See the \fBzipinfo\fP
manual page for a description of those options.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS (Primary Mode)
Options in this group (\fB\-c \-f \-h \-l \-p \-T \-t \-u \-v \-vq \-z\fP)
specify the primary mode of operation of \fIUnZip\fP.  Only one of these
primary mode options may be specified.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-c
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-to\-stdout
.br
Primary Mode.  Extract files to stdout/screen.  This option is similar
to the \fB\-p\fP option except that the name of each file is displayed
as it is extracted, and the \fB\-a\fP option is allowed, which can
provide automatic ASCII-EBCDIC conversion, where appropriate.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-f
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-freshen
.br
Primary Mode.  Freshen existing files.  That is, extract only those
files that already exist on disk and that are newer than the disk
copies.  By default, \fIUnZip\fP queries the user before overwriting,
but the \fB\-o\fP option may be used to suppress the queries.  Note that
on many operating systems, the TZ (timezone) environment variable must
be set correctly in order for \fB\-f\fP/\fB\-\-freshen\fP and
\fB\-u\fP/\fB\-\-update\fP to work properly.  (On Unix the variable is
usually set automatically.)  The reasons for this are somewhat subtle
but have to do with the differences between DOS-format file times
(always local time) and Unix-format times (always UTC) and the necessity
to compare the two.  A typical TZ value is "PST8PDT" (US Pacific time
with automatic adjustment for Daylight Saving Time).
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-help
.br
Primary Mode.  Display brief (roughly 24 lines) usage instructions.  See
also \fB\-hh\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-hh
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-long\-help
.br
Primary Mode.  Display extended help (more complete usage
instructions).  See also \fB\-h\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-l
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-list
.br
Primary Mode.  List archive members.  By default, a brief format is
used, which includes the following items: member name, uncompressed
file size ("Length"), and modification date-time of the member.  A
summary is included at the end of the report, showing total size and
count for all the members in the report.  Specifying a member list
limits the report to those members.
.IP
Adding \fB\-v\fP (\fB\-\-verbose\fP) to an "unzip \-l" command line adds
the following items to the report: compression method, compressed size
("Size"), compression ratio, and 32-bit CRC.
.IP
In contrast to some other programs, \fIUnZip\fP does not include the
12-byte encryption header in the compressed size values for a
Traditionally encrypted member.  Therefore, compressed size and
compression ratio figures are independent of the member's encryption
status and show the correct compression performance.  (The complete size
of the encrypted compressed data stream for archive members is reported
by the more verbose \fIZipInfo\fP reports.  See the separate
\fIzipinfo\fP manual page.)
.IP
If \fIUnZip\fP was built with OS2_EAS enabled, then the \fB\-l\fP report
also includes the sizes of stored OS/2 extended attributes (EAs) and
OS/2 access control lists (ACLs).  In addition, the archive comment and
individual member comments (if any) are displayed.
.IP
If a file was archived from a single-case file system (for example, the
old MS-DOS FAT file system) and the \fB\-L\fP option was given, then the
filename is converted to lowercase and is shown prefixed with a caret
(^).
.IP
Note: If only \fB\-v\fP (\fB\-\-verbose\fP) is specified with an archive
name, then \fIUnZip\fP acts as if "\fB\-l\fP \fB\-v\fP" were specified,
and a detailed listing is generated.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-\-license
.TP
.PD
Primary Mode.  Display the Info-ZIP license.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-p
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-pipe\-to\-stdout
.br
Primary Mode.  Extract files to stdout (pipe).  Only the actual file
data for the members are sent to stdout (no file names, or other
information, as would be displayed with \fB\-c\fP), and the files are
always extracted in binary format, just as they are stored (with no
line-ending or ASCII-EBCDIC conversions).
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-T
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-timestamp\-new
.br
Primary Mode.  Set the timestamp on the archive(s) to that of the newest
file in each one.  This corresponds to \fIZip\fP's \fB\-go\fP option,
except that it can be used on wildcard archives (for example,
"\fCunzip\ \-T\ '*.zip'\fR") and may be faster.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-t
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-test
.br
Primary Mode.  Test archive members.  Testing means that each archive
member is extracted in memory (expanding and decrypting, as needed), but
not written to a file.  The resulting CRC (cyclic redundancy check, an
enhanced checksum) of the extracted data is then compared with the
original file's stored CRC value, and an error message is emitted if a
CRC mismatch is detected.
.IP
Adding \fB\-v\fP to \fB\-t\fP adds some diagnostic information to the
report for archive members with LZMA or PPMd compression.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-u
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-update
.br
Primary mode.  Update existing files and create new ones if
needed.  This mode performs the same function as the Freshen (\fB\-f\fP)
mode, extracting (with query) files that are newer than those with the
same name on disk, but it also extracts those files that do not already
exist on disk.  See \fB\-f\fP, above, for information on setting the
timezone properly.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-verbose
.br
Primary mode (when alone) or option.  When used as a primary mode
(alone), and no archive is specified, an "\fCunzip \-v\fR" command
generates a report showing the program version, build options, and
relevant environment variables.
.IP
When used with some other primary mode option, \fB\-v\fP can make output
more verbose.
.IP
If no other primary mode is specified, and an archive \fIis\fP
specified, then \fIUnZip\fP acts as if "\fB\-l\fP \fB\-v\fP" were
specified, and a detailed listing is generated.  See \fB\-l\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-\-version
.TP
.PD
Primary Mode.  Display the program version, build options, and relevant
environment variables.
.IP
Currently, \fB\-\-version\fP is implemented as a synonym for
\fB\-v\fP/\fB\-\-verbose\fP, so, for proper operation, it must be
specified with no other options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-vq
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quick-version
.br
Primary mode.  Display a brief (one-line) program version report.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-z
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-zipfile\-comment
.br
Primary mode.  Display only the archive comment.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS (Ordinary)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-0
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-no-char\-set
.br
Do not transform FAT/NTFS names.  By default, a particular character
mapping (CP850) is applied to the names of archive members which
originated on a FAT or NTFS file system (typically on an MS-DOS or
Windows system).  This can cause unexpected characters in extracted file
names if the corresponding (inverse) mapping was not used when the
archive was created.  With \-0/\-\-no\-char\-set, the extracted file
name should agree with the name stored in the archive.
.IP
On Unix (or BeOS), \-0/\-\-no\-char\-set effectively overrides any
\-I/\-\-iso-char-set or \-O/\-\-oem-char-set option which may also be
specified.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-2
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-force\-ods2
.br
[VMS] Convert extracted file names to ODS2-compatible names, even on an
ODS5 file system.  By default, if the destination file system is ODS5,
case is preserved, and extended file name characters are caret-escaped
as needed, while if the destination file system is ODS2, ODS2-invalid
characters are replaced by underscores.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-A
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-api\-help
.br
[DLL, object library] Print extended help for the DLL or object library
application programming interface (API).
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-a
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-ascii
.br
Convert text files.  Ordinarily, all files are extracted exactly as they
are stored, byte-for-byte.  With \fB\-a\fP, line endings in a text
file are adjusted to the local standard as the file is extracted.  When
appropriate, ASCII<\-\->EBCDIC conversion is also done.
.IP
\fIZip\fP (or a similar archiving program) identifies files as "binary"
or "text" when they are archived.  (A short-format \fIZipInfo\fP report
denotes a binary file with a "b", and a text file with a "t".)
\fIZip\fP's identification of text files may not be perfect, so
\fIUnZip\fP prints "\fC[binary]\fR" or "\fC[text]\fR" as a visual check
for each file it extracts with \fB\-a\fP.  The \fB\-aa\fP option forces
all files to be extracted (and converted) as text, regardless of the
supposed file type.
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, for archives with VMS attribute information (made with
"zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), files are always created with their original
record formats.  For archives without VMS attribute information (not
made with "zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), all files are normally created
with Stream_LF record format.  With \fB\-a\fP, text files are normally
created with variable-length record format, but adding \fB\-S\fP gives
them Stream_LF record format.  With \fB\-aa\fP, all files are treated as
text files.  See also \fB\-b\fP and \fB\-S\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-B
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-backup
.br
[When built with UNIXBACKUP enabled] Save a backup copy of each
overwritten file.  The backup file gets the name of the target file with
a tilde and optionally a unique sequence number (up to 5 digits)
appended.  The sequence number is appended whenever another file with
the original name plus tilde already exists.  When used together with
the "overwrite all" option, \fB\-o\fP, numbered backup files are never
created.  In this case, all backup files are named as the original file
with an appended tilde, and existing backup files are deleted without
notice.  This feature works similarly to the default behavior of
\fIemacs\fP(1) in many locations.
.IP
Example: the old copy of "\fCfoo\fR" is renamed to "\fCfoo~\fR".
.IP
Warning: Users should be aware that the \fB\-B\fP option does not prevent
loss of existing data under all circumstances.  For example, when
\fIUnZip\fP is run in overwrite-all mode, an existing "\fCfoo~\fR" file
is deleted before \fIUnZip\fP attempts to rename "\fCfoo\fR" to
"\fCfoo~\fR".  When this rename attempt fails (because of a file lock,
insufficient privileges, or any other reason), the extraction of
"\fCfoo~\fR" gets cancelled, but the old backup file is already lost.  A
similar scenario takes place when the sequence number range for numbered
backup files gets exhausted (99999, or 65535 for 16-bit systems).  In
this case, the backup file with the maximum sequence number is deleted
and replaced by the new backup version without notice.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-b
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-binary
.br
[Tandem, VMS] Selects the file record format used when extracting binary
files.  \-b may conflict or interact with \-a in different ways on
different system types.  \-b is ignored on systems other than Tandem and
VMS.
.IP
\fIZip\fP (or a similar archiving program) identifies files as "binary"
or "text" when they are archived.  (A short-format \fIZipInfo\fP report
denotes a binary file with a "b", and a text file with a "t".)
.\" \fIZip\fP's identification of text files may not be perfect, so
.\" \fIUnZip\fP prints "\fC[binary]\fR" or "\fC[text]\fR" as a visual check
.\" for each file it extracts with \fB\-b\fP.  The \fB\-bb\fP option forces
.\" all files to be extracted (and converted) as binary, regardless of the
.\" supposed file type.
.IP
[Tandem] Force the creation files with filecode type 180 ('C') when
extracting archive members marked as "text". (On Tandem, \fB\-a\fP is
enabled by default, see above).
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, for archives with VMS attribute information (made with
"zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), files are always created with their original
record formats.  For archives without VMS attribute information (not
made with "zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), files are normally created with
Stream_LF record format.  With \fB\-b\fP, binary files are created with
fixed-length, 512-byte record format.  With \fB\-bb\fP, all files are
treated as binary files.  When extracting to standard output (\fB\-c\fP
or \fB\-p\fP option in effect), the default conversion of text record
delimiters is disabled for binary files (with \fB\-b\fP), or for all
files (with \fB\-bb\fP).
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-C
.TP
.PD
.BR \-\-ignore\-case "\ \ \ \ ([CMS, MVS] " \-\-CMS\-MVS\-lower )
.br
Use case-insensitive name matching for names in the member list and
the \fB\-x\fP excluded-member list on the command line.  By default,
case-sensitive matching is done.  For example, specifying
"\fCmakefile\fR" on the command line will match \fIonly\fP "makefile" in
the archive, not "Makefile" or "MAKEFILE".  On many systems, the local
file system is case-insensitive, so case-insensitive name matching would
be more natural.  With \fB\-C\fP, "\fCmakefile\fR" would match
"makefile", "Makefile", or "MAKEFILE".
.IP
\fB\-C\fP does not affect the search for the ZIP archive file(s), nor
the matching of archive members to existing files on the extraction
path.  So, on a case-sensitive file system, \fIUnZip\fP will never try
to overwrite a file "FOO" when extracting a member named "foo"!
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-c
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-to\-stdout
.br
Primary Mode.  Extract files to stdout/screen.  For details, see Primary
Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-D
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-dir\-timestamps
.br
Control timestamps on extracted files and directories.  By default,
\fIUnZip\fP restores timestamps for extracted files, but not for
directories it creates.  Specifying \fB\-D\fP tells \fIUnZip\fP not to
restore any timestamps.  Specifying \fB\-D\-\fP tells \fIUnZip\fP to
restore timestamps for directories as well as other items.  \fB\-D\-\fP
works only on systems that support setting timestamps for directories
(currently ATheOS, BeOS, MacOS, OS/2, Unix, VMS, Win32).  On  other
systems, \fB\-D\-\fP has no effect.
.IP
[Non-VMS] Timestamp restoration behavior changed between \fIUnZip\fP
versions 6.00 and 6.1.  The following table shows the effects of
various \fB\-D\fP options for both versions.
.IP
.EX
       UnZip version      |
      6.00    |    6.1    | Restore timestamps on:
   -----------+-----------+------------------------
       -DD    |    -D     | Nothing.
       -D     | (default) | Files, not directories.
    (default) |    -D-    | Files and directories.
.EE
.IP
[VMS] The old behavior on VMS was the same as the new behavior on all
systems.  (The old negated \fB\-\-D\fP option is now \fB\-D\-\fP,
because of changes to the command-line parser.)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-d dest_dir
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-extract\-dir dest_dir
.br
Specifies a destination directory for extracted files.  By default,
files are extracted (and subdirectories created) in the current
(default, working) directory.  With \fB\-d dest_dir\fP, extraction is
done into the specified directory, instead.  See also \fB\-da\fP.
.IP
The option and directory may be concatenated without any white space
between them, but this may cause normal shell behavior to be
suppressed.  For example, "\fC\-d\ ~\fR" (tilde) is expanded by Unix
shells into the name of the user's home directory, but "\fC\-d~\fR"
is treated as a literal "\fB~\fP" subdirectory of the current directory.
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, only a VMS-style device:[directory] specification is
permitted.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-da[=reuse]
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-auto\-extract\-dir[=reuse]
.br
Specifies a destination directory for extracted files which is derived
from the base name of the archive.  By default, files are extracted
(and subdirectories created) in the current (default, working)
directory.  With \fB\-da\fP, UnZip automatically derives a subdirectory
name from the archive name, creates that subdirectory, and extracts
files into that subdirectory.
.IP
For example, with \fB\-da\fP, extraction of "fred.zip" is done into
subdirectory "fred" instead of into the current directory.  (On VMS,
subdirectory "[.fred]".)
.IP
Using this option can help to avoid cluttering the current directory
with files extracted from an archive whose structure does not include a
top-level directory.
.IP
For greater safety, by default, UnZip will refuse to extract into an
automatic extraction directory which already exists.  Specifying the
optional keyword "reuse" will allow an existing directory to be used.
.IP
If \fB\-da\fP is specified as a default option in an environment
variable, it can be overridden by either a negated \fB\-da\-\fP option
or an explicit \fB\-d dest_dir\fP option.  See also \fB\-d\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-E
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-mac\-efs
.br
[MacOS\ (pre-OS-X)] Display contents of MacOS extra field during restore
operation.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-F
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-keep\-nfs
.br
[Acorn] Suppress removal of NFS filetype extension from stored filenames.
.IP
[non-Acorn systems supporting long filenames with embedded commas,
and only if compiled with ACORN_FTYPE_NFS defined] Translate
filetype information from ACORN RISC OS extra field blocks into a
NFS filetype extension and append it to the names of the extracted
files.  (When the stored filename appears already to have an appended
NFS filetype extension, it is replaced by the info from the extra
field.)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-f
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-freshen
.br
Primary Mode.  Freshen existing files.  For details, see Primary Mode
options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-help
.br
Primary Mode.  Display brief (roughly 24 lines) usage instructions.  For
details, see Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-hh
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-long\-help
.br
Primary Mode.  Display complete usage instructions.  For details, see
Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-I char_set
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-iso\-char\-set char_set
.br
[Unix] Select ISO character set \fIchar_set\fP.  See also \-0 and -O.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-i
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-no\-mac\-ef\-names
.br
[MacOS\ (pre-OS-X)] Ignore filenames stored in MacOS extra
fields.  Instead, the most compatible filename stored in the generic
part of the member's header is used.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-J
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-attrs
.br
[BeOS] Junk file attributes.  The file's BeOS file attributes are not
restored, only the file's data.
.IP
[MacOS\ (pre-OS-X)] Ignore Mac OS extra fields.
.IP
[Mac OS X] Do no special Mac-specific processing of AppleDouble
archive members.  An AppleDouble archive member is restored as a
separate "._name" file, as it would be on a non-Mac file system.
.IP
.EX
Note that "\fB\-J\fP" is \fInot\fP equivalent to
"\fB\-Je\ \-Jf\ \-Jr\fP".  With "\fB\-J\fP", an AppleDouble archive
member is restored as a separate "._name" file, as it would
be on a non-Mac file system.  With "\fB\-Je\ \-Jf\ \-Jr\fP", all the
data in an AppleDouble archive member are ignored, so the
data fork file is restored with no extended attributes
(\fB\-Je\fP), no Finder info (\fB\-Jf\fP), and no resource fork (\fB\-Jr\fP);
no "._name" file is created.
.IP
Note that \fB\-j\fP acts on the path of an archive member, and is
independent of the destination directory specified using \fB\-d\fP or
\fB\-da\fP.  For example, with "\fB\-d zz\fP \fB\-j=1\fP", an archive
member like "a/b/c/d/ee.txt" would be extracted as
"zz/b/c/d/ee.txt", with \fB\-j=1\fP stripping the "a/" off the
archive path, and \fB\-d zz\fP adding the "zz/" to the path in the
destination file system.
.EE
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Je
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-extattr
.br
[Mac OS X] Ignore all Mac OS extended attributes.  Extended attribute
processing is available on Mac OS X 10.4 and later.  See also \fB\-J\fP,
\fB\-Jf\fP, \fB\-Jq\fP, and \fB\-Jr\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Jf
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-finder
.br
[Mac OS X] Ignore Mac OS Finder info.  See also \fB\-J\fP, \fB\-Je\fP,
\fB\-Jq\fP, and \fB\-Jr\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Jq
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-qtn
.br
[Mac OS X] Ignore Mac OS X Quarantine ("com.apple.quarantine") extended
attribute.  Use "\fB\-Je\fP", to ignore this and all other extended
attributes.  Extended attribute processing is available on Mac OS X 10.4
and later.  See also \fB\-J\fP, \fB\-Je\fP, \fB\-Jf\fP, and \fB\-Jr\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Jr
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-rsrc
.br
[Mac OS X] Ignore Mac OS Resource fork.  See also \fB\-J\fP, \fB\-Je\fP,
\fB\-Jf\fP, and \fB\-Jq\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-j[=depth]
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-junk\-dirs[=depth]
.br
Junk directories on extracted files.  With \fB\-j\fP, all directory
information is stripped from an archive member name, so all files are
extracted into the destination directory.  (See also \fB\-d\fP and
\fB\-da\fP.)
.IP
If a depth (\fB=depth\fP, where \fBdepth\fP is a positive integer) is
specified, then that number of directory levels will be stripped from an
archive member name.  For example, an archive member like
"a/b/c/d/ee.txt" would normally be extracted as "a/b/c/d/ee.txt".  With
\fB\-j\fP, it would be extracted as "ee.txt".  With \fB\-j=2\fP, the
first two directory levels would be stripped, so it would be extracted
as "c/d/ee.txt".
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-\-jar
.br
Treat archive(s) as Java JAR.  Over-simplification in Java JAR archives
can cause \fIUnZip\fP to transform UTF-8 file names according to
inappropriate (MS-DOS) rules, yielding corrupt names on extracted files
(typically those with character codes 128-255).  Archives containing a
Java "CAFE" extra field should be detected automatically, and handled
correctly, but not all JAR archives include that extra
field.  Specifying \-\-jar tells \fIUnZip\fP to expect UTF-8 file names,
regardless of whether the archive contains a "CAFE" extra field.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-K
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-keep\-s\-attrs
.br
[AtheOS, BeOS, Unix] Retain SUID/SGID/Tacky permission bits.  By
default, these permission bits are cleared, for security reasons.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-k
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-keep\-permissions
.br
[AtheOS, BeOS, Unix, VMS] Control how archived permissions or
protections are restored on extracted files and directories.
.IP
By default, archived permissions are restored with some limitations.  On
AtheOS, BeOS, and Unix, the current umask value is applied (to the
normal user/group/other permissions).  On VMS, the current default
protection is applied to the UIC-based (SOGW) protections.
.IP
With \-k, the archived permissions are restored without regard to the
Unix umask or VMS default protection.  (This was the default behavior in
\fIUnZip\fP versions before 6.1.)
.IP
With \-k\-, the archived permissions are ignored, so only the Unix umask
or VMS default protection is effective.  (On VMS, directories are always
created without any Delete access.)
.IP
On AtheOS, BeOS, and Unix, the SUID/SGID/Tacky permission bits are
controlled by the \-K/\-\-keep\-s\-attrs option, regardless of the
\-k/\-\-keep\-permissions setting.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-ka
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-keep\-acl
.br
[VMS] Restore ACLs on extracted files and directories.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-L
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-lowercase\-names
.br
Convert to lowercase any filename originating on an uppercase-only
operating system or file system.  (This was \fIUnZip\fP's default
behavior in versions before 5.11.  The current default behavior is the
same as the old behavior with the \fB\-U\fP option.  \fB\-U\fP is now
used for another purpose.)
.IP
Depending on the archiver, files archived from single-case file systems
(old MS-DOS FAT, VMS ODS2, and so on) may be stored as all-uppercase
names; this can be ugly or inconvenient when extracting to a
case-preserving file system such as OS/2 HPFS or a case-sensitive one
such as on Unix.  By default \fIUnZip\fP lists and extracts such
filenames exactly as they're stored (excepting truncation, conversion of
unsupported characters, an so on).  With \fB\-L\fP, the names of all
files from certain systems will be converted to lowercase.  With
\fB\-LL\fP, all file names will be down-cased, regardless of the
originating file system.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-l
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-list
.br
Primary Mode.  List archive members.  For details, see Primary Mode
options.
.PP
.PD 0
.BR \-M "\ \ \ \ ([CMS,MVS] Or: " \-m )
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-more
.br
Pipe all output through an internal pager similar to the Unix
\fImore\fP(1) command.  At the end of a screenful of output, \fIUnZip\fP
pauses with a "\-\-More\-\-" prompt; the next screenful may be viewed by
pressing the Enter/Return key or the space bar.  \fIUnZip\fP can be
terminated by pressing the "Q" key and, on some systems, the
Enter/Return key.  Unlike Unix \fImore\fP(1), there is no
forward-searching or editing capability.  Also, \fIUnZip\fP doesn't
notice if long lines wrap at the edge of the screen, effectively
resulting in the printing of two or more lines and the likelihood that
some text will scroll off the top of the screen before being viewed.  If
the actual number of lines on the screen can not be determined, 24 lines
will be assumed.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-N
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-comment\-to\-note
.br
[Amiga] Extract member comments as Amiga filenotes.  Member comments are
created with the \-c option of \fIZip\fP, or with the \-N option of the
Amiga port of \fIZip\fP, which stores filenotes as comments.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-n
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-never\-overwrite
.br
When extracting, never overwrite existing files.  If a file already
exists, then skip the extraction of that file without asking.  See also
\-o (\-\-overwrite).
.IP
By default, \fIUnZip\fP queries the user before extracting any file that
already exists.  The user may choose to overwrite only the current file,
overwrite all files, skip extraction of the current file, skip
extraction of all existing files, or rename the current file (choose a
new name for the extracted file).
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, the usual query choices are to create a new version of an
existing file, to skip extraction, or to rename the current file.  In
the case where an archive member name includes a version number, and \-V
("retain VMS file version numbers") is in effect, then an additional
query choice is offered: to overwrite the existing file.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-O char_set
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-oem\-char\-set char_set
.br
[Unix] Select OEM character set \fIchar_set\fP.  See also \-0 and \-I.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-o
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-overwrite
.br
When extracting, always overwrite existing files without
prompting.  This is a \fIdangerous\fP option, so use it with care.  (It
is often used with \fB\-f\fP, however, and is the only way to overwrite
directory EAs on OS/2.)  See also \-n (\-\-never-overwrite).
.IP
By default, \fIUnZip\fP queries the user before extracting any file that
already exists.
.IP
[Non-VMS] On non-VMS systems, the user may choose to overwrite only the
current file, overwrite all files, skip extraction of the current file,
skip extraction of all existing files, or rename the current file
(choose a new name for the extracted file).
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, the usual query choices are to create a new version of an
existing file, to skip extraction, or to rename the current file.  In
the case where an archive member name includes a version number, and \-V
("retain VMS file version numbers") is in effect, then an additional
query choice is offered: to overwrite the existing file.  In this case,
\-o selects the "new version" choice, and \-oo (or "\-o \-o") selects the
"overwrite" choice.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-P password
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-password password
.br
Use \fIpassword\fP to decrypt encrypted archive members (if
any).  \fITHIS IS INSECURE!\fP  Many multi-user operating systems
provide ways for any user to see the current command line of any other
user.  Even on stand-alone systems, there is always the threat of
over-the-shoulder peeking.  Storing the plaintext password as part of a
command line in an automated script can be even less secure,  Whenever
possible, use the non-echoing, interactive prompt to enter
passwords.  Where security is truly important, use a strong encryption
method, such as AES, instead of the relatively weak encryption provided
by Traditional ZIP encryption.  Or, use an external encryption program,
such as GnuPG, before archiving the file.  (Note that \fIZip\fP will
probably not be able to do significant compression on a file which has
already been encrypted.)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-p
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-pipe\-to\-stdout
.br
Primary Mode.  Extract files to stdout (pipe).  For details, see Primary
Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-q
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quiet
.br
Perform operations quietly.  (\fB\-qq\fP: even more quietly).  By
default, \fIUnZip\fP prints the names of the files it's extracting or
testing, the extraction methods, any member or archive comments that may
be stored in the archive, and possibly a summary when finished with each
archive.  The \fB\-q\fP[\fBq\fP] options suppress the printing of some
or all of these messages.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-r
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-remove\-exts
.br
[Tandem] Remove file extensions.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-S
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-streamlf
.br
[VMS] Use Stream_LF record format when converting extracted text files
(\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-aa\fP), instead of the text-file default,
variable-length record format.
.IP
[VMS] On VMS, for archives with VMS attribute information (made with
"zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), files are always created with their original
record formats.  For archives without VMS attribute information (not
made with "zip\ \-V" or "ZIP\ /VMS"), all files are normally created
with Stream_LF record format.  With \fB\-a\fP, text files are normally
created with variable-length record format, but adding \fB\-S\fP gives
them Stream_LF record format.  With \fB\-aa\fP, all files are treated as
text files.  See also \fB\-a\fP and \fB\-b\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-s
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-space\-to\-uscore
.br
Convert spaces in filenames to underscores.  Normally, on a system which
allows spaces in filenames, \fIUnZip\fP extracts filenames with spaces
intact (for example, "\fCEA\ DATA.\ SF\fR").  Working with such file
names can be awkward, however, so \fB\-s\fP can be used to replace
spaces with underscores.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-sc
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-show\-command
.br
Show processed command line (options, arguments), and then exit.
.IP
Strictly speaking this is a primary-mode option, but it's intended for
use in program development, not for normal use.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-si
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-show\-pid
.br
[Non-VMS] Show the \fIUnZip\fP program's process ID (pid) before
performing any other work.  This value can then be used in a
"kill \-USR1 pid" command to trigger a user-triggered progress report.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-so
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-show\-options
.br
Display all valid program options, then exit.
.IP
Strictly speaking this is a primary-mode option, but it's intended for
use in program development, not for normal use.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-T
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-timestamp\-new
.br
Primary Mode.  Set the timestamp on the archive(s) to that of the newest
file in each one.  For details, see Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-t
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-test
.br
Primary Mode.  Test archive members.  For details, see Primary Mode
options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-U
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-unicode
.br
[UNICODE_SUPPORT] Control UTF-8 handling.  When UNICODE_SUPPORT is
available, \fB\-U\fP forces \fIUnZip\fP to escape all non-ASCII
characters from UTF-8 coded filenames as "#Uxxxx' (for UCS-2 characters,
or "#Lxxxxxx" for Unicode codepoints needing 3 octets).  This option is
provided mainly for debugging, when the fairly new UTF-8 support is
suspected of mangling extracted filenames.
.IP
\fB\-UU\fP disables the recognition of UTF-8 encoded filenames.  The
handling of filename codings within \fIUnZip\fP falls back to the
behavior of pre-Unicode versions.
.IP
[old, obsolete usage] Leave filenames uppercase if created on MS-DOS,
VMS, and so on.  See \fB\-L\fP.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-u
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-update
.br
Primary mode.  Update existing files and create new ones if needed.  For
details, see Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-keep\-versions
.br
[Non-CMS-MVS] Retain VMS file version numbers.  VMS files can be stored
with a version number, in the format "\fCfile.type;##\fR", where "##" is
a positive decimal number.  By default VMS "\fC;##\fR" version numbers
are stripped, but this option allows them to be retained.  (On file
systems that limit filenames to particularly short lengths, the version
numbers may be truncated or stripped regardless of this option.)
.IP
[Non-VMS] Note that before \fIUnZip\fP version 6.1, on a non-VMS
system, a file with a name like "\fCfred;123\fR" would, by default, be
extracted as "\fCfred\fR", even if the file did not originate on a VMS
system (so that "\fC;123\fR" was probably not really a VMS version
number).  Beginning with UnZip version 6.1, the default behavior is to
strip VMS version numbers only from files which were archived on a VMS
system.  To restore the old behavior, and always strip apparent VMS
version numbers, explicitly negate the option: \fB\-V\-\fP.
.IP
[VMS] Note that on VMS, \fB\-V\fP affects \fIonly\fP version numbers,
and is \fInot\fP needed to restore VMS file attributes.  \fBZip\fP's
\fB\-V\fP (\fB/VMS\fP) option is required to \fIstore\fP VMS attributes
in an archive.  If that was done when an archive was created, then
\fBUnZip\fP will always \fIrestore\fP those attributes when a file is
extracted.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-verbose
.br
When used with some primary mode option, \fB\-v\fP can make output more
verbose.  See also Primary Mode options, and \fB\-l\fP in particular.
.IP
Note: If only \fB\-v\fP (\fB\-\-verbose\fP) is specified with an archive
name, then \fIUnZip\fP acts as if "\fB\-l\fP \fB\-v\fP" were specified,
and a detailed listing is generated.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-\-version
.TP
.PD
Primary Mode.  Display the program version, build options, and relevant
environment variables.  For details, see Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-vq
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quick-version
.br
Primary mode.  Display a brief (one-line) program version report.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-W
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-wild\-no\-span
.br
[WILD_STOP_AT_DIR] (Valid when the program was built with the C macro
WILD_STOP_AT_DIR defined.)  By default, the wildcard characters "?"
(single-character wildcard) and "*" (multi-character wildcard) match any
character in a member path/name.  "\fC\-W\fR" modifies the
pattern-matching behavior for archive members so that both "?"
(single-character wildcard) and "*" (multi-character wildcard) do not
match the directory separator character "/".  (The two-character
sequence "**" acts as a multi-character wildcard that includes the
directory separator in its matched characters.)  For example, with
"\fC\-W\fR":
.PP
.EX
    "*.c"   matches "foo.c" but not "mydir/foo.c"
    "**.c"  matches both "foo.c" and "mydir/foo.c"
    "*/*.c" matches "bar/foo.c" but not "baz/bar/foo.c"
    "??*/*" matches "ab/foo" and "abc/foo"
            but not "a/foo" or "a/b/foo"
.EE
.IP
This modified behavior is equivalent to the pattern matching style used
by the shells of some of \fIUnZip\fP's supported target OSs (one example
is Acorn RISC OS).  This option may not be available on systems where
the Zip archive's internal directory separator character "/" is allowed
as regular character in native operating system filenames.
.IP
[non-VMS] Currently, \fIUnZip\fP uses the same pattern matching rules
for both wildcard archive file name specifications and archive member
selection patterns on most system types.  For systems allowing "/" as
regular filename character, the \-W option would not work as expected on
a wildcard file name specification.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-X
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-restore\-owner
.br
[NT, OS/2, Unix, VMS, Tandem] Restore owner info (user and group info
(UID/GID) on Unix, UIC on VMS, or access control lists (ACLs) on certain
network-enabled versions of OS/2 (Warp Server with IBM LAN
Server/Requester 3.0 to 5.0; Warp Connect with IBM Peer 1.0), or
security ACLs on Windows NT.)  In most cases this will require special
system privileges, and doubling the option (\fB\-XX\fP) on NT instructs
\fIUnZip\fP to use privileges for extraction; but on Unix, for example,
a user who belongs to several groups can restore files owned by any of
those groups, so long as the user IDs match the user's own.  Note that
ordinary file attributes are always restored.  This option applies only
to optional, extra ownership info available on some operating
systems.  (NT's access control lists do not appear to be especially
compatible with OS/2's, so no attempt is made at cross-platform
portability of access privileges.  It is not clear under which
conditions this would ever be useful anyway.)
.PP
.PD 0
.BR "\-x member" " ..."
.TP
.PD
.BR "\-\-exclude member" " ..."
.br
An optional list of archive members to be excluded from
processing.  Because wildcard characters normally match "/" directory
separators (for exceptions, see the option \fB\-W\fP), this option may
be used to exclude any files that are in subdirectories.  For example,
"\fCunzip\ foo\ *.[ch]\ \-x\ */*\fR" would extract all C source files
(*.c, *.h) in the main directory, but none in any
subdirectories.  Without the \fB\-x\fP option, all C source files in all
directories within the archive would be extracted.
.IP
When the program sees \fB\-x\fP (\fB\-\-exclude\fP) on a command line,
it stops scanning for options, and treats every succeeding item as an
archive member name.  To avoid confusion between member names and
command options, it's simplest to specify \fB\-x\fP (\fB\-\-exclude\fP)
and its member list as the \fIlast\fP items on a command
line.  Alternatively, the special name "@" can be used to terminate the
member list (and cause the program to resume scanning for
options).  That is, the following two commands are equivalent:
.EX
      unzip fred.zip -b -x file1 file2 file3
      unzip fred.zip -x file1 file2 file3 @ -b
.EE
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Y
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-dot\-version
.br
[VMS] Treat archive member name endings of ".nnn" (where "nnn" is a
decimal number) as if they were VMS version numbers (";nnn").  (The
default is to treat them as file types.)  For example:
.EX
     "a.b.3" -> "a.b;3"
.EE
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-Z
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-zipinfo\-mode
.br
\fIZipInfo\fP mode.  If the first option on the command line is
\fB\-Z\fP, then the program runs in \fIZipInfo\fP mode.  Remaining
options are interpreted as \fIZipInfo\fP options.  See the
\fBzipinfo\fP manual page for a description of those options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-z
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-zipfile\-comment
.br
Primary mode.  Display only the archive comment.  For details, see
Primary Mode options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-$
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-volume\-labels
.br
.\" [Amiga support possible eventually, but not yet.]
[MS-DOS, NT, OS/2, VMS] Restore the volume label if the extraction
medium is removable (for example, a diskette).  Doubling the option
(\fB\-$$\fP) allows fixed media (hard disks) to be labeled as well.  By
default, volume labels are ignored.
.br
[VMS] On VMS, a volume must be allocated, not shared, for a volume label
to be set.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-/
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-extensions
.br
[Acorn] Overrides the extension list supplied by the \fBUnzip$Ext\fP
environment variable.  During extraction, filename extensions that match
one of the items in this extension list are swapped in front of the base
name of the extracted file.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-:
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-do\-double\-dots
.br
[all but Acorn, VM/CMS, MVS, Tandem] Allows \fIUnZip\fP to extract
archive members into locations outside of the current extraction
destination directory (and its subdirectories).
.IP
For security reasons, \fIUnZip\fP normally removes "parent directory"
path components ("../") from the path names of archive members as they
are extracted.  This safety feature (new for version 5.50) prevents
\fIUnZip\fP from accidentally writing files to directories outside
the current destination directory tree.  The \fB\-:\fP option sets
\fIUnZip\fP back to its previous, more liberal behavior, allowing exact
extraction of archives that use "../" path components to create multiple
directory trees at \fIor above\fP the level of the destination
directory.
.IP
This option does not enable writing explicitly to the root
directory ("/").  To achieve this, it is necessary to set the extraction
target folder to "/" (by using an option like "\fB\-d\ /\fP").  However,
when the \fB\-:\fP option is specified, it is still possible implicitly
to write to the root directory if member paths specifying enough "../"
path components.
.IP
\fIUse this option with extreme caution.\fP
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-^
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-control\-in\-name
.br
[Unix] Allow control characters in file names of extracted ZIP archive
members.  On Unix, a file name may contain any (8-bit) character code
with the two exceptions of "/" (the directory delimiter) and NUL (0x00,
the C string-termination character), unless the specific file system has
more restrictive conventions.  Generally, this allows embedding ASCII
control characters or escape sequences in file names.  However, this
feature allows the use of malicious file names which can cause various
kinds of bad trouble when displayed on a user's
terminal/emulator.  (Even a file name with unprintable but otherwise
harmless characters can cause problems for users.)
.IP
For these reasons, by default, \fIUnZip\fP applies a filter that removes
potentially dangerous control characters from the extracted file
names.  The \fB\-^\fP option overrides this filter in the rare case that
embedded filename dangerous control characters are to be intentionally
restored.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS"
\fIUnZip\fP's default behavior may be modified by placing command-line
options in an environment variable.  This can be done with any option,
but it is probably most useful options like \fB\-a\fP (auto-convert text
files), \fB\-L\fP (downcase file names from systems with all uppercase
file names), \fB\-C\fP (use case-insensitive name matching), \fB\-q\fP
(quiet), \fB\-o\fP (always overwrite), or \fB\-n\fP (never overwrite).
.IP
For \fIUnZip\fP, the environment variable name is UNZIP, except on VMS,
where it's UNZIP_OPTS (to avoid conflict with a foreign-command DCL
symbol, UNZIP).  For similarity with \fIZip\fP, if UNZIP (UNZIP_OPTS
on VMS) is not defined, then \fIUnZip\fP will use UNZIPOPT the same way.
.IP
For \fIZipInfo\fP ("\fCunzip -Z\fR"), the environment variable name is
ZIPINFO, except on VMS, where it's ZIPINFO_OPTS.  For similarity with
\fIZip\fP, if ZIPINFO (ZIPINFO_OPTS on VMS) is not defined, then
\fIZipInfo\fP will use ZIPINFOOPT the same way.
.IP
For example, to make \fIUnZip\fP act as quietly as possible, only
reporting errors, one could use commands like the following:
.TP
  Unix Bourne (or similar) shell:
UNZIP='\-q\ \-q'; export UNZIP
.TP
  Unix C shell:
setenv\ UNZIP\ '\-q\ \-q'
.TP
  OS/2 or MS-DOS:
set\ UNZIP="\-q\ \-q"
.TP
  VMS (with quotation to preserve lower case in DCL):
define\ UNZIP_OPTS\ "\-q\ \-q"       ! Logical name, or
.br
UNZIP_OPTS\ =\ "\-q\ \-q"            ! DCL symbol.  (Either works.)
.IP
Environment options are treated the same as any other command-line
options, except that they are effectively the first options on the
command line.  To override an environment option, one may use an
explicit option to cancel or override it.  For example, to override one
of the "quiet" flags in the example above, use a command like:
.EX
unzip\ \-q\-\ [\fIother\ options\fP]\ archive.zip
.EE
.IP
The leading hyphen is the normal option character, and the trailing one
negates the option, canceling one level of quietness.  To cancel
multiple "quiet" flags, use multiple \fB\-q\-\fP options:
.PP
.EX
unzip\ \-t\ \-q\-\ \-q\-\ archive
unzip\ \-q\-\ \-q\-\ \-t\ archive
.EE
.IP
Note that multiple one-character options like "\-q" and "\-q" can be
combined into a single "\-qq", but it's generally clearer to keep each
instance of each option separate.  Similarly, negated one-character
options can be combined, as with "\-q\-q\-", but "\-q\-\ \-q\-" is
generally clearer.
.IP
The examples show short (one-character) options, but long ("\-\-")
options are also allowed.
.PP
The timezone variable (TZ) should be set according to the local timezone
in order for the Freshen (\fB\-f\fP) and Update (\fB\-u\fP) modes to
operate correctly.  For details, see \fB\-f\fP.  This variable may also
be necessary to get timestamps of extracted files to be set correctly.
.IP
On Windows systems, \fIUnZip\fP gets the timezone configuration from the
registry, assuming it is correctly set in the Control Panel.  The TZ
variable is ignored on these systems.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ENCRYPTION/DECRYPTION
\fIZip\fP and \fIUnZip\fP have long supported a relatively weak
encryption method, which we call Traditional ZIP encryption.  The source
code for Traditional encryption is included in the source kits, and
support for Traditional encryption is enabled by default.
.PP
The Info-ZIP programs \fIUnZip\fP (version 6.1 and later) and \fIZip\fP
(version 3.1 and later)include optional support for Advanced Encryption
Standard (AES) encryption, a relatively strong encryption method.
.TP
The Info-ZIP AES implementation is based on the \fIWinZip\fP AES
specification, and uses AES encryption code supplied by Brian Gladman.
We refer to it as IZ_AES_WG (Info-ZIP AES WinZip/Gladman) or simply
AES_WG.  (\fIWinZip\fP is a registered trademark of WinZip International
LLC.)  The source code for AES_WG encryption is included in the normal
UnZip source kit, and support for it will be enabled by default.
.TP
The WinZip AES scheme is described in:
http://www.winzip.com/aes_info.htm
.TP
For information on the IZ_AES_WG source code, see:
aes_wg/README_AES_WG.txt
.br
or:
.br
ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/crypt/README_AES_WG.txt
.TP
See the INSTALL file in the source kit for details on how to disable
AES_WG encryption (or how to disable Traditional encryption).
.PP
Normally, encryption passwords are supplied by the user interactively
when requested by the program.  See the \fB\-P\fP option for a (less
secure) method of specifying a password on the command line.
.PP
With Traditional encryption, when decrypting, a password will be checked
against header data, and used if it appears to be correct.  The correct
password will always check out against the header data, but there is a
1-in-256 chance that an incorrect password will as well.  (This is a
security feature of the PKWARE archive format; it helps prevent
brute-force attacks that might otherwise gain a large speed advantage by
testing only the header.)  In the case that an incorrect password is
given but it passes the header test anyway, either an incorrect CRC will
be generated for the extracted data or else \fIUnZip\fP will fail during
the extraction because the "decrypted" bytes do not constitute a valid
compressed data stream.
.PP
If the first password fails the header check on some file, \fIUnZip\fP
will prompt for another password, and so on until all files are
extracted.  If a password is not known, entering a null password (that
is, just a carriage return or "Enter") is taken as a signal to skip all
further prompting.  Only unencrypted files in the archive(s) will
thereafter be extracted.  (The situation is actually a little more
complicated.  Some old versions of \fIZip\fP and \fIZipCloak\fP allowed
null passwords, so \fIUnZip\fP checks each encrypted file to see if the
null password works.  This may result in "false positives" and
extraction errors, as noted above.)
.PP
Archives encrypted with 8-bit-character passwords (for example,
passwords with accented European characters) may not be portable across
systems or to other archivers.  This problem stems from the use of
multiple encoding methods for such characters, including Latin-1 (ISO
8859-1) and OEM code page 850.  DOS \fIPKZIP\fP 2.04g uses the OEM code
page; Windows \fIPKZIP\fP 2.50 uses Latin-1 (and is therefore
incompatible with DOS \fIPKZIP\fP); Info-ZIP uses the OEM code page on
DOS, OS/2 and Win3.x ports but ISO coding (Latin-1 etc.) everywhere
else; and Nico Mak's \fIWinZip\fP 6.x does not allow 8-bit-character
passwords at all.  \fIUnZip\fP 5.3 (or newer) attempts to use the
default character set first (e.g., Latin-1), followed by the alternate
one (e.g., OEM code page) to test passwords.  On EBCDIC systems, if both
of these fail, EBCDIC encoding will be tested as a last resort.  (EBCDIC
is not tested on non-EBCDIC systems, because there are no known
archivers that encrypt using EBCDIC encoding.)  ISO character encodings
other than Latin-1 are not supported.  The new addition of (partial)
Unicode (UTF-8) support in \fIUnZip\fP 6.0 has not yet been adapted to
the encryption password handling in \fIUnZip\fP.  On systems that use
UTF-8 as native character encoding, \fIUnZip\fP simply tries decryption
with the native UTF-8 encoded password; the built-in attempts to check
the password in translated encoding have not yet been adapted for UTF-8
support and will consequently fail.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
To use \fIUnZip\fP to extract all members of the archive \fIletters.zip\fP
into the current directory and subdirectories below it, creating any
subdirectories as necessary:
.PP
.EX
unzip letters
.EE
.PP
To extract all members of \fIletters.zip\fP into the current directory only:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-j letters
.EE
.PP
To test \fIletters.zip\fP, printing only a summary message indicating
whether the archive is OK or not:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-t \-q letters
.EE
.PP
To test \fIall\fP ".zip" archives in the current directory, printing
only the summaries:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-t \-q "*.zip"
.EE
.PP
Here, the wildcard archive name was quoted to keep a Unix shell from
expanding ("globbing") it.  (This would not be necessary on VMS.)
.PP
The following command extracts to standard output all members of
\fIletters.zip\fP whose names end in \fI\.tex\fP, auto-converting to the
local end-of-line convention, and piping the output into \fImore\fP(1)
(again, quoting the wildcard member name pattern):
.PP
.EX
unzip \-c \-a letters '*.tex' | more
.EE
.PP
To extract the binary file \fIpaper1.dvi\fP to standard output and pipe it
to a printing program:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-p articles paper1.dvi | dvips
.EE
.PP
To extract from \fIsource.zip\fP all Fortran and C source files (*.f,
*.c, *.h) and Makefile into the /tmp directory (again, quoting the
wildcard):
.PP
.EX
unzip source.zip "*.[fch]" Makefile \-d /tmp
.EE
.PP
To extract all FORTRAN and C source files, regardless of case (for
example, both *.c and *.C, and any makefile, Makefile, MAKEFILE or
similar):
.PP
.EX
unzip \-C source.zip "*.[fch]" makefile \-d /tmp
.EE
.PP
To extract any such files but convert any uppercase MS-DOS or VMS names
to lowercase and convert the line-endings of all of the files to the
local standard (without respect to any files that might be marked
"binary"):
.PP
.EX
unzip \-aa \-C \-L source.zip "*.[fch]" makefile \-d /tmp
.EE
.PP
The following command extracts only newer versions of the files already
in the current directory, without querying.  (Note: Be careful of
extracting in one timezone an archive created in another.  ZIP archives
created by \fIZip\fP versions before 2.1 contain no timezone
information, and a "newer" file from an eastern timezone may, in fact,
be older):
.PP
.EX
unzip \-f \-o sources
.EE
.PP
To extract newer versions of the files already in the current directory
and to create any files not already there (same caveat as previous
example):
.PP
.EX
unzip \-u \-o sources
.EE
.PP
To display a configuration report showing the program version, the OS
and compiler used to build it, a list of optional features enabled at
build time, and the values of all the relevant environment variables:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-v
.EE
.PP
In the last five examples, assume that UNZIP or UNZIP_OPTS is set to
\-q.  To do a (singly) quiet listing:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-l file.zip
.EE
.PP
To do a doubly quiet listing:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-l \-q file.zip
.EE
.PP
(Note that the "\fC\.zip\fR" is generally not necessary.)  To do a standard
listing:
.PP
.EX
unzip \-l \-q\- file.zip
.EE
or:
.EX
unzip \-lq\- file.zip
.EE
or:
.EX
unzip \-q\-l file.zip
.EE
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status (or error level) approximates the exit codes defined by
PKWARE and takes on the following values (except on VMS):
.RS
.IP 0
Normal.  No errors or warnings detected.
.IP 1
One or more warnings were encountered, but processing completed
successfully.  This includes archives where one or more (but not all)
files were skipped because of an unsupported compression or encryption
method, or a bad encryption password.
.IP 2
Error in the archive format.  Processing may or may not have completed
successfully.
.IP 3
Severe error in the archive format.  Processing probably failed
immediately.
.IP 4
Memory allocation failed in program initialization.
.IP 5
Memory allocation or terminal I/O failed in encryption password
processing.
.IP 6
Memory allocation failed while decompressing to disk.
.IP 7
Memory allocation failed while decompressing in memory.
.IP 8
Memory allocation failed.  (Currently not used.)
.IP 9
Specified archive files were not found.
.IP 10
Invalid command-line options or parameters.
.IP 11
No matching files were found.
.IP 50
Disk (file system) filled during extraction.
.IP 51
Unexpected end-of-file while reading the archive.
.IP 80
User interrupt (Ctrl/C or similar).
.IP 81
No files were processed, because of unsupported compression or
encryption methods.
.IP 82
No files were processed, because of bad encryption password(s).
.IP 83
Large-file archive could not be processed by this small-file program.
.IP 84
Failed to create automatic extraction directory.  (Already exists?)
.RE
.PP
[VMS] On VMS, the standard Unix exit status values are translated into
valid VMS status codes.  For details, see the file [.vms]NOTES.TXT in
the source kit.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH BUGS
Multi-part archives are not yet supported, except in conjunction with
\fIZip\fP.  (All parts must be concatenated together in order, and then
"\fCzip\ \-F\fR" (for Zip 2.x) or "\fCzip\ \-FF\fR" (for Zip 3.x) must be
performed on the concatenated archive in order to "fix" it.  Also,
\fIzip\fP version 3.0 and later can combine multi-part (split) archives into a
combined single-file archive using
"\fCzip\ \-s\-\ inarchive\ \-O\ outarchive\fR".  See the \fIzip\fP
manual page for more information.)  This may be corrected in the next
major release.
.PP
Archives read from standard input are not yet supported, except with
\fIfUnZip\fP (and then only the first member of the archive can be
extracted).
.PP
Archives encrypted with 8-bit-character passwords (such as passwords
with accented European characters) may not be portable across systems
and/or other archivers.  See also \fBENCRYPTION/DECRYPTION\fP.
.PP
\fIUnZip\fP's \fB\-M\fP ("\-\-more") option tries to take into account
automatic wrapping of long lines.  However, the code may fail to detect
the correct wrapping locations.  First, TAB characters (and similar
control sequences) are not taken into account, they are handled as
ordinary printable characters.  Second, depending on the actual system
type, \fIUnZip\fP may not detect the true terminal/emulator geometry,
but instead may rely on "commonly used" default dimensions.  The correct
handling of tabs would require the implementation of a query for the
actual tab setup on the output terminal/emulator.
.PP
[Unix] Unix special files such as FIFO buffers (named pipes), block
devices and character devices are not restored even if they are somehow
represented in the archive, nor are hard-linked files
relinked.  Basically, the only file types restored by \fIUnZip\fP are
regular files, directories, and symbolic (soft) links.
.PP
[OS/2] Extended attributes for existing directories are only updated if
the \fB\-o\fP ("overwrite all") option is given.  This is a limitation
of the operating system; because directories only have a creation time
associated with them, \fIUnZip\fP has no way to determine whether the
stored attributes are newer or older than those on disk.  In practice
this may mean a two-pass approach is required:  first unpack the archive
normally (with or without freshening/updating existing files), then
overwrite just the directory entries (for example,
"\fCunzip\ \-o\ foo\ */\fR").
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIfunzip\fP(1L), \fIunzipsfx\fP(1L), \fIzip\fP(1L), \fIzipcloak\fP(1L),
.br
\fIzipgrep\fP(1L), \fIzipinfo\fP(1L), \fIzipnote\fP(1L), \fIzipsplit\fP(1L)
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH URL
.TP
The Info-ZIP main Web page is:
.EX
\fChttp://www.info-zip.org/\fR
.EE
.TP
FTP access is available, too:
.EX
\fCftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR
.EE
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH AUTHORS
The primary Info-ZIP authors (current semi-active members of the
Zip-Bugs workgroup) are:  Ed Gordon (Zip, general maintenance, shared
code, Zip64, Win32, Unix, Unicode); Christian Spieler (VMS, MS-DOS,
Win32, shared code, general Zip and \fIUnZip\fP integration and
optimization); Onno van der Linden (Zip); Mike White (Win32, Windows
GUI, Windows DLLs); Kai Uwe Rommel (OS/2, Win32); Steven M. Schweda
(\fIUnZip\fP maintenance, VMS, Unix, support of new features); Paul
Kienitz (Amiga, Win32, Unicode); Chris Herborth (BeOS, QNX, Atari);
Jonathan Hudson (SMS/QDOS); Sergio Monesi (Acorn RISC OS); Harald Denker
(Atari, MVS); John Bush (Solaris, Amiga); Hunter Goatley (VMS, Info-ZIP
server maintenance); Steve Salisbury (Win32); Steve Miller (Windows CE
GUI), Johnny Lee (MS-DOS, Win32, Zip64); and Dave Smith (Tandem NSK).
.PP
The following people are former members of the Info-ZIP development
group, and provided major contributions to key parts of the current code:
Greg "Cave Newt" Roelofs (\fIUnZip\fP, unshrink decompression);
Jean-loup Gailly (deflate compression);
Mark Adler (inflate decompression, \fIfUnZip\fP).
.PP
The author of the original unzip code upon which Info-ZIP's was based
is Samuel H. Smith; Carl Mascott did the first Unix port; and David P.
Kirschbaum organized and led Info-ZIP in its early days with Keith Petersen
hosting the original mailing list at WSMR-SimTel20.  The full list of
contributors to \fIUnZip\fP has grown quite large; please refer to the
proginfo/CONTRIBS file in the \fIUnZip\fP source distribution for a
relatively complete version.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
