.\"  Copyright (c) 1990-2015 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  See the accompanying file LICENSE, version 2009-Jan-02 or later
.\"  (the contents of which are also included in unzip.h) for terms of use.
.\"  If, for some reason, all these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license
.\"  also may be found at:  ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html
.\"
.\" zipinfo.1 by Greg Roelofs and others.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH ZIPINFO 1L "17 Apr 2015 (v6.1)" "Info-ZIP"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" Define .EX/.EE (for multiline user-command examples; normal Courier font).
.\" Must follow ".TH"; otherwise macros get redefined.
.de EX
.in +4n
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de EE
.ft
.fi
.in -4n
..
.\" define .WX/.WE (wide multiline user-command examples; normal Courier font)
.de WX
.in -4n
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de WE
.ft
.fi
.in +4n
..
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
zipinfo \- show detailed information about a ZIP archive
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzipinfo\fP [\fB\-12smlvhMtTz\fP] \fIfile\fP[\fI.zip\fP]
[\fImember\fP\ .\|.\|.] [\fB\-x\fP\ \fImember\fP\ .\|.\|.]
.PP
\fBunzip\fP \fB\-Z\fP [\fB\-12smlvhMtTz\fP] \fIfile\fP[\fI.zip\fP]
[\fImember\fP\ .\|.\|.] [\fB\-x\fP\ \fImember\fP\ .\|.\|.]
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIZipInfo\fP reports detailed information about a ZIP archive and its
members.  This information may include file access permissions,
compression method, encryption method, version and operating system (or
file system) of the archive-creating program, and so on.  The default
behavior (with no options) is to show a single-line entry for each
member in the archive, with a header and a trailer providing summary
information for the entire archive.  The format is a cross between Unix
"\fCls \-l\fR" and "\fCunzip \-lv\fR" output.  See
.B "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
below.  \fIZipInfo\fP is the same program as \fIUnZip\fP.  (On Unix,
"\fCzipinfo\fR" may be a link to "\fCunzip\fR".)  However, \fIZipInfo\fP
support may have been disabled when \fIUnZip\fP was built.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I file[.zip]
File path/name of a ZIP archive.  A wildcard name may be specified (only
in the filename part of the file specification, not in the directory
part).  If a wildcard is used, then each matching archive file is
processed in an order determined by the operating system (or file
system).  Wildcard expressions are similar to those supported (for
"globbing") in commonly used Unix shells (\fIcsh\fP, \fIksh\fP,
\fIsh\fP, and so on) and may contain:
.RS
.IP *
Matches a sequence of 0 or more characters.
.IP ?
Matches exactly 1 character.
.IP [.\|.\|.]
Matches any single character found inside the brackets.  Ranges are
specified by a beginning character, a hyphen, and an ending
character.  If an exclamation point ("!") or a caret ("^") follows the
left bracket, then the range of characters within the brackets is
complemented.  That is, anything \fIexcept\fP the characters inside the
brackets is considered a match.  To specify a literal left bracket, use
the three-character sequence "[[]".
.RE
.IP
Be sure to escape or quote any character(s) that might otherwise be
interpreted or modified by the operating system, particularly Unix
shells.  If no wildcard matches are found, then the specification is
assumed to be a literal filename.  If that also fails, then the
suffix "\fC\.zip\fR" and/or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" is appended, and that is
tried.  (For this reason, if a non-existent file is specified, then the
resulting error message may mention these other names with
their "\fC\.zip\fR" or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" suffixes.)
.IP
Note that a "\fC\.zip\fR" or "\fC\.ZIP\fR" name ending on an archive is
merely a convention, not a requirement.  For example, a self-extracting
ZIP archive named "\fCfred\fR" or "\fCfred.exe\fR" could be processed as
if it were an ordinary archive; just specify the actual file name with
its actual name ending (if any), whatever that may be.
.TP
.IR member " ..."
An optional list of archive members to be processed, separated by
spaces.  If no member list is specified, then all archive members are
processed.  Wildcard patterns (like those used for an archive file name
on Unix, described above) may be used to match multiple members.  Again,
be sure to quote expressions that would otherwise be expanded or
modified by the operating system or shell.
.IP
On Mac OS X systems, file attributes, a resource fork, and similar data
may be stored in a separate AppleDouble archive member which has a "._"
name prefix.  In some cases, UnZip automatically handles these
AppleDouble archive members when a normal member pattern is specified,
but with ZipInfo, the user must specify patterns which explicitly
include any desired AppleDouble archive members.
.IP
On VMS systems, the wildcard rules used for archive members are the same
as on Unix systems.  VMS wildcard rules are used only for archive file
specifications, not for archive member patterns.
.\" =========================================================================
.SH OPTIONS (Primary Format)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-1
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-names\-only
.br
Primary Format.  Show member names only, one per line.  This option
excludes all others, and the report does not include headers, trailers,
or archive comments.  This format may be useful with Unix shell (or
other) scripts.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-2
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-names\-mostly
.br
Primary Format.  Show member names only, one per line (as with "-1"),
but allow headers (\fB\-h\fP), trailers (\fB\-t\fP), and archive
comments (\fB\-z\fP), if requested explicitly.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-s
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-short\-list
.br
Primary Format.  Show member info in short Unix "\fCls\ \-l\fR"
format.  This is the default behavior, unless \fB\-h\fP or \fB\-t\fP is
specified.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-m
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-medium\-list
.br
Primary Format.  Show member info in medium-length Unix "\fCls\ \-l\fR"
format.  Like the \fB\-s\fP format, except that the compression factor,
expressed as a percentage, is also included.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-l
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-long\-list
Primary Format.  Show member info in long Unix "\fCls\ \-l\fR"
format.  Like the \fB\-m\fP format, except that the compressed size (in
bytes) is printed instead of the compression ratio.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-verbose
.br
Primary Format.  Show very detailed member info in a multi-line format.
.IP
The verbose report is mostly self-explanatory, but it does assume some
familiarity with the ZIP archive format.  It also includes the archive
comment, if any.  Extra fields in the central directory are broken dowm
into subfields, with brief descriptions of recognized subfields (or
abbreviated dumps of unrecognized subfields).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS (Ordinary)
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-C
.TP
.PD
.BR \-\-ignore\-case "\ \ \ \ ([CMS, MVS] " \-\-CMS\-MVS\-lower )
.br
Use case-insensitive name matching for names in the member list and
the \fB\-x\fP excluded-member list on the command line.  By default,
case-sensitive matching is done.  For example, specifying
"\fCmakefile\fR" on the command line will match \fIonly\fP "makefile" in
the archive, not "Makefile" or "MAKEFILE".  On many systems, the local
file system is case-insensitive, so case-insensitive name matching would
be more natural.  With \fB\-C\fP, "\fCmakefile\fR" would match
"makefile", "Makefile", or "MAKEFILE".
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-header
.br
Include a header in the report, showing the archive name, the archive
size (in bytes), and the number of members in the archive.
.IP
For the Unix-format reports (options \fB\-l\fP, \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-s\fP),
the header is included by default, if no archive members are
specified.  If \fB\-h\fP is specified alone, that is, without one of the
Unix-format options, and without a member list, then only the header
lines will be put out.
.PP
.PD 0
.BR \-M "\ \ \ \ ([CMS,MVS] Or: " \-m )
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-more
.br
Pipe all output through an internal pager similar to the Unix
\fImore\fP(1) command.  At the end of a screenful of output,
\fIZipinfo\fP pauses with a "\-\-More\-\-" prompt; the next screenful
may be viewed by pressing the Enter (Return) key or the space
bar.  \fIZipInfo\fP can be terminated by pressing the "q" key, or, on
some systems, the Enter/Return key.  Unlike Unix \fImore\fP(1), there is
no forward-searching or editing capability.  Also, \fIZipInfo\fP doesn't
notice if long lines wrap at the edge of the screen, effectively
resulting in the printing of two or more lines and the likelihood that
some text will scroll off the top of the screen before being viewed.  If
the actual number of lines on the screen can not be determined, 24 lines
will be assumed.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-mc
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-member-counts
.br
Control inclusion of separate member counts for directories, files, and
(if symlinks are supported) links, after the totals summary at the end
of the report.  By default, they are included.  Use \fB\-mc\-\fP or
\-\-member\-counts\- to suppress them.  See also /TOTALS.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-T
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-decimal\-time
.br
Show the file date-times in a sortable, all-numeric, "YYYYMMDD.hhmmss"
format.  The default date format is an alpha-numeric
"YY-Mmm-DD hh:mm".  For example ("-s", "-s -T"):
.PP
\fC
.br
-rw-a--     3.1 fat   211916 tx defX 10-Jun-18 00:27 zip31c/zip.c
.br
-rw-a--     3.1 fat   211916 tx defX 20100618.002703 zip31c/zip.c
\fR
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-t
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-totals
.br
Include a totals summary at the end of the report, showing the number of
members in the report, the sum of their uncompressed sizes, the sum of
their compressed sizes, and the compression factor as a percentage.
.IP
For the Unix-format reports (options \fB\-l\fP, \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-s\fP),
the totals summary is included by default, if no archive members are
specified.  If \fB\-t\fP is specified alone, that is, without one of the
Unix-format options, and without a member list, then only the totals
summary trailer lines will be put out.
.IP
The total "bytes compressed" reported includes only the actual data, not
the ZIP archive meta-data, so the size of the archive will always be
greater than this value.
.IP
See also -mc.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-U
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-unicode
.br
[UNICODE_SUPPORT] Control UTF-8 handling.  When UNICODE_SUPPORT is
available, \fB\-U\fP forces \fIZipInfo\fP to escape all non-ASCII
characters from UTF-8 coded filenames as "#Uxxxx" (for UCS-2 characters,
or "#Lxxxxxx" for Unicode codepoints needing 3 octets).  This option is
mainly provided for debugging purpose when the fairly new UTF-8 support
is suspected of damaging extracted filenames.
.IP
\fB\-UU\fP disables the recognition of UTF-8 encoded filenames.  The
handling of filename codings within \fIZipInfo\fP falls back to the
behavior of pre-Unicode versions.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-\-version
.TP
.PD
When used alone, display the program version, and usage.  See also
Primary Format option \fB\-v\fP.
.IP
Currently, \fB\-\-version\fP is implemented as a synonym for
\fB\-v\fP/\fB\-\-verbose\fP, so, for proper operation, it must be
specified with no other options.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-vq
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-quick-version
.br
Primary mode.  Display a brief (one-line) program version report.
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-W
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-wild\-no\-span
.br
[WILD_STOP_AT_DIR] (Valid when the program was built with
WILD_STOP_AT_DIR enabled.)  Modify the pattern-matching behavior so that
both "?" (single-character wildcard) and "*" (multi-character wildcard)
do not match the directory separator character "/".  (The two-character
sequence "**" acts as a multi-character wildcard that includes the
directory separator in its matched characters.)  For example, with
"\fC\-W\fR":
.PP
.EX
    "*.c" matches "foo.c" but not "mydir/foo.c"
    "**.c" matches both "foo.c" and "mydir/foo.c"
    "*/*.c" matches "bar/foo.c" but not "baz/bar/foo.c"
    "??*/*" matches "ab/foo" and "abc/foo"
            but not "a/foo" or "a/b/foo"
.EE
.IP
This modified behavior is equivalent to the pattern matching style used
by the shells of some of \fIUnZip\fP's supported target OSs (one example
is Acorn RISC OS).  This option may not be available on systems where
the Zip archive's internal directory separator character "/" is allowed
as regular character in native operating system filenames. (Currently,
\fIUnZip\fP uses the same pattern matching rules for both wildcard
archive file name specifications and archive member selection patterns
on most system types.  For systems allowing "/" as regular filename
character, the \-W option would not work as expected on a wildcard file
name specification.)
.PP
.PD 0
.BR "\-x member" " ..."
.TP
.PD
.BR "\-\-exclude member" " ..."
.br
An optional list of archive members to be excluded from
processing.  Because wildcard characters normally match "/" directory
separators (for exceptions see the option \fB\-W\fP), this option may be
used to exclude any files that are in subdirectories.  For example,
"\fCzipinfo\ foo\ *.[ch]\ \-x\ */*\fR" would report on all C source
files (*,c, *.h) in the main directory, but none in any
subdirectories.  Without the \fB\-x\fP option, all C source files in all
directories within the archive would be included in the report.
.IP
When the program sees \fB\-x\fP (\fB\-\-exclude\fP) on a command line,
it stops scanning for options, and treats every succeeding item as an
archive member name.  To avoid confusion between member names and
command options, it's simplest to specify \fB\-x\fP (\fB\-\-exclude\fP)
and its member list as the \fIlast\fP items on a command
line.  Alternatively, the special name "@" can be used to terminate the
member list (and cause the program to resume scanning for
options).  That is, the following two commands are equivalent:
.EX
      zipinfo fred.zip -2 -t -x file1 file2 file3
      zipinfo fred.zip -x file1 file2 file3 @ -2 -t
.EE
.PP
.PD 0
.B \-z
.TP
.PD
.B \-\-zipfile-comment
.br
Include the archive comments (if any) in the report.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
\fIZipInfo\fP has three basic report formats, providing different
degrees of detail in the information about the members of an archive: a
simple list of names (\fB\-1\fP, \fB\-2\fP), a Unix \fIls\fP-style
listing (\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-s\fP), and a very detailed analysis
(\fB\-v\fP).  Some of the information, such as file sizes, is easy to
interpret.  Some of the information involves fairly obscure details of
ZIP archive structure.  ZIP archive structure is documented in the
PKWARE Inc.\& APPNOTE.TXT:
\fChttp://www.pkware.com/documents/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT\fR
.PP
The table below shows some typical \fB\-l\fP report entries:
.PP
.WX
Perm/Prot  Zver Ofs UncoSize At CompSize Cmth  ModDate  Mtime Name
----------+----+---+--------+--+--------+----+---------------+--------------
-rw-a--     3.1 fat   211916 tx    53467 defX 10-Jun-18 00:27 zip31c/zip.c
-rwxr-x---  3.1 unx      709 Tx      311 aesw 11-Aug-21 22:20 endian.c
RWED,RE,    3.1 vms     6656 bx     2295 defN 07-Aug-15 14:12 itrc/TST.EXE;8
.WE
.PP
Field 1 (Perm/Prot) shows the file permission/protection attributes,
formatted according to the original operating system or file system
where the archive was created.
.PP
Field 2 (Zver) shows the (approximate) version of the Zip program which
created the archive.
.PP
Field 3 (Ofs) shows the original operating system where the archive was
created, or the file system on which the member file was stored.
.PP
Field 4 (UncoSize) shows the original, uncompressed file size.
.PP
Field 5 (At) shows some archive member attributes, as detailed in the
tables below.  The first character indicates whether a file was binary
or text, and whether it was encrypted.  The second character indicates
the presence of a data descriptor (sometimes called an "extended
header") and/or an extra field in the member data.
.EX

              |   File Type     Extra Field |
  First char  | binary  text      yes   no  |  Second char
--------------+-------+-----    ------+-----+--------------------
Encrypted  no |   b      t         x     -  | no  Data Descriptor
          yes |   B      T         X     l  | yes
.EE
.IP
A Data Descriptor holds CRC and size data at an alternate place in the
archive (after processed member data instead of before), and is
normally used when the archiving program can't seek in the output
archive data/file.  An Extra Field can hold a wide variety of data,
including 64-bit file sizes, many kinds of OS-specific attribute data,
UTC times, and so on.
.PP
Field 6 (CompSize) shows the compressed file size.  With \fB\-m\fP, this
field shows the compression fraction as a percentage.  With \fB\-s\fP
(the default), this field is omitted.  This compressed size value
(unlike the one in an "\fCunzip\ -l\fR" report) includes all the
overhead resulting from Traditional encryption.
.PP
Field 7 (Cmth) shows the compression method used.  Note that AES_WG
encryption is treated as a compression method here.  Not all of the
methods shown in the table below are supported.  (Some are obsolete.)
.PP
.WX
 Num Abbr  Name, description
----+----+------------------------------------------------------------
  0  stor  Store (no compression)
  1  shrk  Shrink
  2  re:1  Reduce (factor 1)
  3  re:2  Reduce (factor 2)
  4  re:3  Reduce (factor 3)
  5  re:4  Reduce (factor 4)
  6  i#:#  Implode (dictonary_size:Shannon-Fano_trees)
  7  tokn  Tokenize
  8  def#  Deflate (N: normal, X: maximum, F: fast, S: super-fast)
  9  d64#  Deflate64 (N: normal, X: maximum, F: fast, S: super-fast)
 10  dcli  PKWARE Data Compression Library Imploding - IBM TERSE (old)
 12  bzp2  bzip2
 14  lzma  LZMA
 18  ters  IBM TERSE (new)
 19  lz77  IBM LZ77 z Architecture (PFS)
 96  jpeg  JPEG
 97  wavp  WavPack
 98  ppmd  PPMd version I, Rev 1
 99  aesw  AES_WG encryption
.WE
.PP
Fields 8 and 9 (ModDate, Mtime) show the file modification date-time
(MS-DOS format, local time).
.PP
Field 10 (Name) shows the file path/name.
.PP
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS"
\fIZipInfo\fP's default behavior may be modified by placing command-line
options in an environment variable.  This can be done with any option,
but it is probably most useful options like \fB\-T\fP (decimal time
format) or one of the non-default Unix format optiond (\fB\-l\fP,
\fB\-m\fP).
.IP
For \fIZipInfo\fP ("\fCunzip -Z\fR"), the environment variable name is
ZIPINFO, except on VMS, where it's ZIPINFO_OPTS.  For similarity with
\fIZip\fP, if ZIPINFO (ZIPINFO_OPTS on VMS) is not defined, then
\fIZipInfo\fP will use ZIPINFOOPT the same way.
.IP
For example, to make the default format the long Unix format instead of
the short Unix format, one could use commands like the following:
.TP
  Unix Bourne (or similar) shell:
ZIPINFO='\-l'; export ZIPINFO
.TP
  Unix C shell:
setenv\ ZIPINFO\ '\-l'
.TP
  OS/2 or MS-DOS:
set\ ZIPINFO="\-l"
.TP
  VMS (with quotation to preserve lower case in DCL):
define\ ZIPINFO_OPTS\ "\-l"        ! Logical name, or
.br
ZIPINFO_OPTS\ =\ "\-l"             ! DCL symbol.  (Either works.)
.IP
Environment options are treated the same as any other command-line
options, except that they are effectively the first options on the
command line.  To override an environment option, one may use an
explicit option to cancel or override it.  For example, to disable the
totals trailer line by default, one could use commands like the
following:
.TP
  Unix Bourne (or similar) shell:
ZIPINFO='\-t\-'; export ZIPINFO
.TP
  Unix C shell:
setenv\ ZIPINFO\ '\-t\-'
.TP
  OS/2 or MS-DOS:
set\ ZIPINFO="\-t\-"
.TP
  VMS (with quotation to preserve lower case in DCL):
define\ ZIPINFO_OPTS\ "\-t\-"       ! Logical name, or
.br
ZIPINFO_OPTS\ =\ "\-t\-"            ! DCL symbol.  (Either works.)
.IP
The examples show short (one-character) options, but long ("\-\-")
options are also allowed.
.PP
The timezone variable (TZ) should be set according to the local timezone
in order for the Freshen (\fB\-f\fP) and Update (\fB\-u\fP) modes to
operate correctly.  For details, see \fB\-f\fP.  This variable may also
be necessary to get timestamps of extracted files to be set correctly.
.IP
On Windows systems, \fIUnZip\fP gets the timezone configuration from the
registry, assuming it is correctly set in the Control Panel.  The TZ
variable is ignored on these systems.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
To get a basic, short-format listing of the complete contents of a ZIP
archive \fIzip31c.zip\fP, with both header and totals lines, use only
the archive name as an argument to zipinfo:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo zip31c.zip
zipinfo zip31c
.EE
.PP
To produce a basic, long-format listing (not verbose), including header
and totals lines, use \fB\-l\fP:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo \-l zip31c.zip
.EE
.PP
To list the complete contents of the archive without header and totals
lines, either negate the \fB\-h\fP and \fB\-t\fP options or else specify
the contents explicitly:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo \-h\- \-t\- zip31c.zip
zipinfo zip31c.zip "*"
.EE
.PP
(Here, the wildcard "*" is quoted to prevent a Unix shell from expanding
(globbing) it.)
.PP
To list information on a single archive member, in medium format,
specify the member name explicitly:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo \-m unzip60.zip "*/unshrink.c"
.EE
.PP
When any member name is specified, the header and totals trailer are, by
default, not included in the report, but explicitly specifying \fB\-h\fP
and/or \fB\-t\fP will restore them.  For example:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo \-m \-t unzip610b.zip "*.[ch]" "*/Make*"
.EE
.PP
On a Unix system, one could use the \fB\-T\fP option along with an
external sorting program (and another filter like \fIhead\fP or
\fItail\fP) to get a listing of the least or most recently modified
files in the archive:
.PP
.EX
zipinfo -l -T -h- -t- zip31c.zip | sort -k 8 | head -12
zipinfo -l -T -h- -t- zip31c.zip | sort -r -k 8 | head -12
.EE
.PP
The \fIsort\fP option \fB\-k\ 8\fP tells it to sort on field 8, which is
the date-time field in a long- or medium-format (\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-m\fP)
\fIZipInfo\fP report.  (Use \fB\-k\ 7\fP for the short (\fB\-s\fP)
format.)  The \fB\-r\fP option reverses the default smallest-to-largest
sort order.
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH BUGS
As with \fIUnZip\fP, \fIZipInfo\fP's \fB\-M\fP ("more") option is overly
simplistic in its handling of screen output.  As noted above, it fails
to detect the wrapping of long lines and may thereby cause lines at the
top of the screen to be scrolled off before being read.  \fIZipInfo\fP
should detect and treat each occurrence of line-wrap as one additional
line printed.  This requires knowledge of the screen's width as well as
its height.  In addition, \fIZipInfo\fP should detect the true screen
geometry on all systems.
.PP
The interactions among the various listing format, header, and trailer
options (\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-l\fP, \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-s\fP, \fB\-t\fP) are
unnecessarily complex and should be simplified, despite the potential
disruption to current users.
.PP
.\" =========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIfunzip\fP(1L), \fIunzip\fP(1L), \fIunzipsfx\fP(1L),
\fIzip\fP(1L), \fIzipcloak\fP(1L), \fIzipnote\fP(1L), \fIzipsplit\fP(1L)
.PD
.\" =========================================================================
.SH URL
.TP
The Info-ZIP main Web page is:
.EX
\fChttp://www.info-zip.org/\fR
.EE
.TP
FTP access is available, too:
.EX
\fCftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/\fR
.EE
.PP
