.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:00:12 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 
.TH NULL 4 "21. November 1992" "Linux" "Gerätedateien"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
null, zero \- Daten-Vernichter
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Daten welche an die Geräte
.BR null " oder " zero
gelangen, werden ungeachtet ihres Inhaltes, vernichtet.
.PP
Lesen aus der Gerätedatei
.B null
liefert immer ein Dateiende (EOF) zurück, während
.B zero
immer das Zeichen \e0 zurück gibt.
.LP
.BR null " und " zero " werden generiert durch:"
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 666 /dev/null c 1 3
.br
mknod -m 666 /dev/zero c 1 5
.br
chown root.mem /dev/null /dev/zero
.sp
.RE
.SH NOTIZ
Ist das lesen und schreiben auf diesen Gerätedateien nicht für alle Benutzer
erlaubt, können diverse Programme sonderbar reagieren.
.SH DATEIEN
.I /dev/null
.br
.I /dev/zero
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR mknod (1),
.BR chown (1).
