.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return values
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FREAD 3 "17. Mai 1996" GNU Linux\-Programmierhandbuch
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
fread, fwrite \- Ein\-/Ausgabe binärer Datenströme
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
.sp
\fBsize_t fread(void *\fP\fIzeiger\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIgroesse\fP\fB,\fP
\fB             size_t \fP\fInmemb\fP\fB, FILE *\fP\fIdatenstrom\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBsize_t fwrite(const void *\fP\fIzeiger\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIgroesse\fP\fB,\fP
\fB              size_t \fP\fInmemb\fP\fB, FILE *\fP\fIdatenstrom\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBfread\fP() liest \fInmemb\fP Datenelemente, jeweils \fIgroesse\fP
Byte lang, vom Datenstrom, auf den \fIdatenstrom\fP zeigt, und speichert sie an
der Position, die \fIzeiger\fP angibt.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBfwrite\fP() schreibt \fInmemb\fP Datenelemente, jeweils \fIgroesse\fP
Byte lang, in den Datenstrom, auf den \fIdatenstrom\fP zeigt. Diese stammen von
der Position, die \fIzeiger\fP angibt.
.PP
Für nicht sperrende Gegenstücke, siehe \fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3).
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
\fBfread\fP() und \fBfwrite\fP() geben die Anzahl der erfolgreich geschriebenen
oder gelesenen Elemente zurück (d.h. nicht die Anzahl der Zeichen). Wenn ein
Fehler auftritt oder das Dateiende erreicht ist, wird eine kurze
Elementezahl (oder Null) zurückgegeben.
.PP
\fBfread\fP() unterscheidet nicht zwischen Dateiende und Fehler, der Aufrufende
muss \fBfeof\fP(3) bzw. \fBferror\fP(3) benutzen, um herauszufinden was passiert
ist.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
C89, POSIX.1\-2001.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
\fBread\fP(2), \fBwrite\fP(2), \fBfeof\fP(3), \fBferror\fP(3), \fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3)
.SH KOLOPHON
Diese Seite ist Teil der Veröffentlichung 3.27 des Projekts
Linux\-\fIman\-pages\fP. Eine Beschreibung des Projekts und Informationen, wie
Fehler gemeldet werden können, finden sich unter
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.

.SH ÜBERSETZUNG
Die deutsche Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite wurde von
Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
und
Chris Leick <c.leick@vollbio.de>
erstellt.

Diese Übersetzung ist Freie Dokumentation; lesen Sie die
GNU General Public License Version 3 oder neuer bezüglich der
Copyright-Bedingungen. Es wird KEINE HAFTUNG übernommen.

Wenn Sie Fehler in der Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite finden,
schicken Sie bitte eine E-Mail an <debian-l10n-german@lists.debian.org>.
