.\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:08:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-25, aeb
.\" Modified 2004-11-12 as per suggestion by Fabian Kreutz/AEB
.\" 2008-07-24, mtk, moved yxx() material into separate y0.3 page
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH J0 3 "20. September 2010" "" Linux\-Programmierhandbuch
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
j0, j0f, j0l, j1, j1f, j1l, jn, jnf, jnl \- Besselfunktionen der ersten
Gattung
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.sp
.fi
\fBdouble j0(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBdouble j1(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBdouble jn(int \fP\fIn\fP\fB, double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBfloat j0f(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBfloat j1f(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBfloat jnf(int \fP\fIn\fP\fB, float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBlong double j0l(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBlong double j1l(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBlong double jnl(int \fP\fIn\fP\fB, long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
Linken Sie mit der Option \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Mit Glibc erforderliche Makros (siehe \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
\fBj0\fP(), \fBj1\fP(), \fBjn\fP():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.br
\fBj0f\fP(), \fBj0l\fP(), \fBj1f\fP(), \fBj1l\fP(), \fBjnf\fP(), \fBjnl\fP():
.RS 4
.\" Also seems to work: -std=c99 -D_XOPEN_SOURCE
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.RE
.ad b
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktionen \fBj0\fP() und \fBj1()\fP() liefern die Bessel\-Funktion von \fIx\fP
der ersten Gattung der jeweiligen Ordnung 0 und 1 zurück. Die Funktion
\fBjn\fP() liefert die Bessel\-Funktion von \fIx\fP der ersten Gattung und der
Ordnung \fIn\fP zurück.
.PP
Die Funktionen \fBj0f\fP() usw. und \fBj0l\fP() sind Versionen, die \fIfloat\fP
bzw. \fIlong double\fP erwarten und zurückliefern.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
On success, these functions return the appropriate Bessel value of the first
kind for \fIx\fP.

Falls \fIx\fP keine gültige Zahl (»NaN«) ist, wird »NaN« zurückgegeben.

If \fIx\fP is too large in magnitude, or the result underflows, a range error
occurs, and the return value is 0.
.SH FEHLER
In \fBmath_error\fP(7) erfahren Sie, wie Sie Fehler bei der Ausführung
mathematischer Funktionen erkennen.
.PP
Die folgenden Fehler können auftreten:
.TP 
Range error: result underflow, or \fIx\fP is too large in magnitude
.\" An underflow floating-point exception
.\" .RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
.\" is raised.
\fIerrno\fP wird auf \fBERANGE\fP gesetzt.
.PP
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not raise exceptions?
.\" e.g., j0(1.5e16)
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6805
These functions do not raise exceptions for \fBfetestexcept\fP(3).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
The functions returning \fIdouble\fP conform to SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1\-2001.
The others are nonstandard functions that also exist on the BSDs.
.SH FEHLER
There are errors of up to 2e\-16 in the values returned by \fBj0\fP(), \fBj1\fP()
and \fBjn\fP()  for values of \fIx\fP between \-8 and 8.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
\fBy0\fP(3)
.SH KOLOPHON
Diese Seite ist Teil der Veröffentlichung 3.40 des Projekts
Linux\-\fIman\-pages\fP. Eine Beschreibung des Projekts und Informationen, wie
Fehler gemeldet werden können, finden sich unter
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.

.SH ÜBERSETZUNG
Die deutsche Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite wurde von
Helge Kreutzmann <debian@helgefjell.de>
erstellt.

Diese Übersetzung ist Freie Dokumentation; lesen Sie die
GNU General Public License Version 3 oder neuer bezüglich der
Copyright-Bedingungen. Es wird KEINE HAFTUNG übernommen.

Wenn Sie Fehler in der Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite finden,
schicken Sie bitte eine E-Mail an <debian-l10n-german@lists.debian.org>.
