.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:45:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" FIXME glibc 2.10 adds psiginfo(), specified in SUSv4.  This function
.\" should be documented, probably on this page.
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH PSIGNAL 3 "21. August 2008" GNU Linux\-Programmierhandbuch
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
psignal \- Ausgabe einer Signalnachricht
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
\fB#include <signal.h>\fP
.sp
\fBvoid psignal(int \fP\fIsig\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBextern const char *const \fP\fIsys_siglist\fP\fB[];\fP
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Mit glibc erforderliche Makros (siehe \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.sp
\fBpsignal\fP(): _SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE
.br
\fIsys_siglist\fP: _BSD_SOURCE
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBpsignal\fP() gibt eine Nachricht auf \fIstderr\fP aus. Die
Nachricht besteht aus der Zeichenkette \fIs\fP, einem Doppelpunkt, einem
Leerzeichen und einer Zeichenkette \fIsig\fP für die Beschreibung der
Signalnummer. Wenn \fIsig\fP ungültig ist, weist die angezeigte Nachricht auf
ein unbekanntes Signal hin.
.PP
Das Feld \fIsys_siglist\fP enthält in der Reihenfolge der Signalnummern die
Signalbeschreibungen.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Die Funktion \fBpsignal\fP() gibt keinen Wert zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX.1\-2008, 4.3BSD.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
\fBperror\fP(3), \fBstrsignal\fP(3)
.SH KOLOPHON
Diese Seite ist Teil der Veröffentlichung 3.25 des Projekts
Linux\-\fIman\-pages\fP. Eine Beschreibung des Projekts und Informationen, wie
Fehler gemeldet werden können, finden sich unter
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.

.SH ÜBERSETZUNG
Die deutsche Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite wurde von
Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
und
Martin E. Schauer <Martin.E.Schauer@gmx.de>
erstellt.

Diese Übersetzung ist Freie Dokumentation; lesen Sie die
GNU General Public License Version 3 oder neuer bezüglich der
Copyright-Bedingungen. Es wird KEINE HAFTUNG übernommen.

Wenn Sie Fehler in der Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite finden,
schicken Sie bitte eine E-Mail an <debian-l10n-german@lists.debian.org>.
