.\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright (C) 2005, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:05:30 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Feb 16 14:25:17 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 20:55:44 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 15 21:16:25 2001 by John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 16 00:04:43 2001 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 20 03:04:30 2003 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" 2005-12-13, mtk, Substantial rewrite of strerror_r() description
.\"         Addition of extra material on portability and standards.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRERROR 3 "22. April 2012" "" Linux\-Programmierhandbuch
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strerror, strerror_r \- gibt eine Zeichenkette zurück, die den Fehlercode
beschreibt
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.sp
\fBchar *strerror(int \fP\fIerrnum\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBint strerror_r(int \fP\fIerrnum\fP\fB, char *\fP\fIbuf\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIbuflen\fP\fB);\fP
            /* XSI\-konform */
.sp
\fBchar *strerror_r(int \fP\fIerrnum\fP\fB, char *\fP\fIbuf\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIbuflen\fP\fB);\fP
            /* GNU\-spezifisch */
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Mit Glibc erforderliche Makros (siehe \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.sp
Die XSI\-konforme Version von \fBstrerror_r\fP() wird bereitgestellt, falls:
.br
(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600) && !\ _GNU_SOURCE
.br
Anderenfalls wird die GNU\-spezifische Version bereitgestellt.
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
The \fBstrerror\fP()  function returns a pointer to a string that describes the
error code passed in the argument \fIerrnum\fP, possibly using the
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fP part of the current locale to select the appropriate
language.  (For example, if \fIerrnum\fP is \fBEINVAL\fP, the returned description
will "Invalid argument".)  This string must not be modified by the
application, but may be modified by a subsequent call to \fBstrerror\fP().  No
library function, including \fBperror\fP(3), will modify this string.

The \fBstrerror_r\fP()  function is similar to \fBstrerror\fP(), but is thread
safe.  This function is available in two versions: an XSI\-compliant version
specified in POSIX.1\-2001 (available since glibc 2.3.4, but not
POSIX\-compliant until glibc 2.13), and a GNU\-specific version (available
since glibc 2.0).  The XSI\-compliant version is provided with the feature
test macros settings shown in the SYNOPSIS; otherwise the GNU\-specific
version is provided.  If no feature test macros are explicitly defined, then
(since glibc 2.4)  \fB_POSIX_SOURCE\fP is defined by default with the value
200112L, so that the XSI\-compliant version of \fBstrerror_r\fP()  is provided
by default.

Die XSI\-konforme \fBstrerror_r\fP() ist für portable Anwendungen
vorzuziehen. Sie gibt die Fehlerzeichenkette im vom Nutzer bereitgestellten
Puffer \fIbuf\fP der Länge \fIbuflen\fP zurück.

The GNU\-specific \fBstrerror_r\fP()  returns a pointer to a string containing
the error message.  This may be either a pointer to a string that the
function stores in \fIbuf\fP, or a pointer to some (immutable) static string
(in which case \fIbuf\fP is unused).  If the function stores a string in
\fIbuf\fP, then at most \fIbuflen\fP bytes are stored (the string may be truncated
if \fIbuflen\fP is too small and \fIerrnum\fP is unknown).  The string always
includes a terminating null byte.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Die Funktionen \fBstrerror\fP() und die GNU\-spezifische \fBstrerror_r\fP() gibt
die entsprechende Zeichenkette mit der Fehlerbeschreibung zurück oder eine
Nachricht »Unbekannter Fehler nnn«, wenn die Fehlernummer unbekannt ist.

POSIX.1\-2001 and POSIX.1\-2008 require that a successful call to
\fBstrerror\fP(3)  shall leave \fIerrno\fP unchanged, and note that, since no
function return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application that
wishes to check for errors should initialize \fIerrno\fP to zero before the
call, and then check \fIerrno\fP after the call.

The XSI\-compliant \fBstrerror_r\fP()  function returns 0 on success.  On error,
a (positive) error number is returned (since glibc 2.13), or \-1 is returned
and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate the error (glibc versions before 2.13).
.SH FEHLER
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Der Wert von \fIerrnum\fP ist keine gültige Fehlernummer.
.TP 
\fBERANGE\fP
Es wurde unzureichender Speicher für die Aufnahme der Fehler\-Zeichenkette
bereitgestellt.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
\fBstrerror\fP() wird von POSIX.1\-2001, C89, C99 spezifiziert.  \fBstrerror_r\fP()
wird von POSIX.1\-2001 spezifiziert.

Die GNU\-spezifische Funktion \fBstrerror_r\fP() ist eine nicht
standardisierteErweiterung.

.\" e.g., Solaris 8, HP-UX 11
.\" e.g., FreeBSD 5.4, Tru64 5.1B
POSIX.1\-2001 permits \fBstrerror\fP()  to set \fIerrno\fP if the call encounters
an error, but does not specify what value should be returned as the function
result in the event of an error.  On some systems, \fBstrerror\fP()  returns
NULL if the error number is unknown.  On other systems, \fBstrerror\fP()
returns a string something like "Error nnn occurred" and sets \fIerrno\fP to
\fBEINVAL\fP if the error number is unknown.  C99 and POSIX.1\-2008 require the
return value to be non\-NULL.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
\fBerr\fP(3), \fBerrno\fP(3), \fBerror\fP(3), \fBperror\fP(3), \fBstrsignal\fP(3)
.SH KOLOPHON
Diese Seite ist Teil der Veröffentlichung 3.40 des Projekts
Linux\-\fIman\-pages\fP. Eine Beschreibung des Projekts und Informationen, wie
Fehler gemeldet werden können, finden sich unter
http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.

.SH ÜBERSETZUNG
Die deutsche Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite wurde von
Martin Eberhard Schauer <Martin.E.Schauer@gmx.de>
erstellt.

Diese Übersetzung ist Freie Dokumentation; lesen Sie die
GNU General Public License Version 3 oder neuer bezüglich der
Copyright-Bedingungen. Es wird KEINE HAFTUNG übernommen.

Wenn Sie Fehler in der Übersetzung dieser Handbuchseite finden,
schicken Sie bitte eine E-Mail an <debian-l10n-german@lists.debian.org>.
