.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr 2 11:32:09 MET DST
.\" 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified by Thomas König (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de) 24 Apr 1993
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:28:08 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" German translation  Rene Tschirley (gremlin@cs.tu-berlin.de) 
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 00:20:20 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\" 
.TH INTRO 7  "23. April 1993" "Linux" "Verschiedenes"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
intro \- Einleitung in den Abschnitt 'Verschiedenes'
.SH "BESCHREIBUNG"
Dieses Kapitel beschreibt verschiedene Dinge, die von anderen Kapiteln
nicht abgedeckt werden, so wie nroff Makro Pakete, Tabellen, C
Headerstrukturen, die Dateihierarchie oder allgemeine Konzepte.
.SH "AUTOREN"
Informationen zu Autoren und Urheberrechten befinden sich
in den Köpfen der jeweiligen Seiten.  Beachten Sie, daß
diese Daten von Seite zu Seite unterschiedlich sein
können!

