.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Translated into German by Ralf Demmer, Translation & Consulting
.\" rdemmer@rdemmer.de, http://www.rdemmer.de
.\" Berlin, 3.2.1999
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)alloca.3	5.1 (Berkeley) 5/2/91
.\"
.\" Converted Mon Nov 29 11:05:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:41:56 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH ALLOCA 3  "3. März 1999" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
alloca \- Speicherzuweisung
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void *alloca( size_t " size );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B alloca
weist dem Aufrufenden 
.I size
Bytes auf dem Stack zu. Dieser temporäre Bereich wird bei der Rückgabe 
automatisch freigegeben.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion 
.B alloca
gibt einen Zeiger auf den Anfang des zugewiesenen Bereiches zurück. Wenn die 
Zuweisung fehlschlug, wird ein 
.B NULL
-Zeiger zurückgegeben.
.SH KONFORM ZU
Es ist bekannt, daß die Funktion 
.B alloca
in 32v, pwb, pwb.2, 3bsd und 4bsd vorhanden ist. Es gibt eine Manpage für sie unter 
BSD 4.3. Linux verwendet die GNU-Version.
.SH FEHLER
Die Funktion 
.B alloca
ist abhängig von der Rechnerarchitektur.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR brk "(2), " pagesize "(2), " calloc "(3), " malloc "(3), " realloc (3)
