.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Translated into german by David Thamm <dthamm@bfs.de>
.\"
.\" sync: man-pages 1.70
.\"
.TH ASPRINTF 3 "25. November 2004" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
asprintf, vasprintf \- Ausgabe in allokierte Zeichenkette
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int asprintf(char **" strp ", const char *" fmt ", ...);"
.sp
.BI "int vasprintf(char **" strp ", const char *" fmt ", va_list " ap );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktionen
.B asprintf
und
.B vasprintf
sind analog zu
.B sprintf
und
.B vsprintf
mit der Ausnahme, dass sie Speicherplatz für die Zeichenkette
allokieren, der ausreichend groß ist, um die Ausgabe inklusive des
abschließenden NUL-Zeichens aufzunehmen.  Ein Zeiger darauf wird über
den ersten Parameter zurückgegeben.  Dieser Zeiger sollte an
.BR free (3)
übergeben werden, um den belegten Speicherbereich wieder freizugeben,
wenn er nicht mehr benötigt wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Wenn erfolgreich, geben diese Funktionen die Anzahl von ausgegebenen
Bytes zurück, wie bei
.BR sprintf (3).
Wenn die Speicherzuteilung nicht möglich war,
oder andere Fehler auftreten, geben diese Funktionen -1 zurück und
der Inhalt von
.I strp
ist undefiniert.
.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Diese Funktionen sind GNU Erweiterungen und nicht in C oder POSIX
definiert.  Sie sind ebenso verfügbar unter *BSD.  Die
Implementation unter FreeBSD setzt
.I strp
bei Fehler auf NULL.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR  free (3),
.BR  malloc (3),
.BR  printf (3).


