.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:42:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:44:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Translated into German by Ralf Demmer, Translation & Consulting
.\" rdemmer@rdemmer.de, http://www.rdemmer.de
.\" Berlin, 20.4.1999
.\"
.TH ASSERT 3 "27. Mai 1999" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
assert \- Beendet das Programm, wenn der Prüfausdruck falsch ist.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <assert.h>
.sp
.BI "void assert (int " "expression" ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B assert()
gibt eine Fehlermeldung auf der Standardausgabe aus und bricht das Programm 
mit einem Aufruf von 
.B abort()
ab, wenn 
.B expression
falsch ist (d.h. wenn die Auswertung NULL ergibt). Dies kann nur eintreten, 
wenn das Makro
.B NDEBUG
nicht definiert ist.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Es wird nichts zurückgegeben.
.SH KONFORM ZU
ISO9899 (ANSI C)
.SH BUGS
.B assert()
ist ein Makro. Wenn in dem geprüften Ausdruck Seiteneffekte auftreten, 
ändert sich das Verhalten des Programms in Abhängigkeit davon, ob
.B NDEBUG
definiert ist oder nicht. Dies kann sporadische Fehler verursachen, die bei 
aktivierter Debug-Option verschwinden.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR exit (3),
.BR abort (3). 
