.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:39:41 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:38:42 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Dec 17 18:35:06 2000, Joseph S. Myers
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\" Modified Sat, 10 Feb 2001, Michael Piefel <piefel@debian.org>
.\"
.TH ATOI 3 "17. Dezember 2000" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
atoi, atol, atoll, atoq \- konvertiert einen String in eine Integerzahl
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int atoi(const char *" nptr );
.br
.BI "long atol(const char *" nptr );
.br
.BI "long long atoll(const char *" nptr );
.br
.BI "long long atoq(const char *" nptr );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die \fBatoi()\fP-Funktion konvertiert eine Zeichenkette in eine Integerzahl.
Dabei ist
.I nptr
ein Zeiger auf den String, der konvertiert werden soll.
Der übergebene String wird dabei nach den ersten passenden Zeichen
durchsucht und diese werden konvertiert.
Die Funktion verhält sich genauso wie:
.sp
.RS
.BI "strtol(" nptr ", (char **)NULL, 10);"
.RE
.sp
Allerdings findet
.B atoi()
keine Fehler. 
.PP
Die \fBatol()\fP- und \fBatoll()\fP-Funktionen haben das gleiche Verhalten wie
\fBatoi()\fR, nur dass sie den Anfang der Zeichenkette in ihren Rückgabewert
(also \fIlong\fP oder \fIlong long\fP) konvertieren.  \fBatoq()\fP ist ein
veralteter Name für \fBatoll()\fP.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Der konvertierte Wert.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX.1, BSD 4.3, ISO/IEC 9899.  ISO/IEC 9899:1990 (C89) and
POSIX.1 (Ausgabe 1996) haben nur die Funktionen \fBatoi()\fP und
\fBatol()\fP; C99 fügt die Funktion \fBatoll()\fP hinzu.
.SH "BEMERKUNGEN"
Die Nicht-Standard-Funktion \fBatoq()\fP ist in libc 4.6.27 oder glibc 2 nicht
vorhanden, dafür aber in libc5 und libc 4.7 (wenn auch bis libc 5.4.44 nur als
Inline-Funktion in \fB<stdlib.h>\fP).  Die \fBatoll()\fP-Funktion ist in glibc 2
seit Version 2.0.2 vorhanden, aber nicht in libc4 oder libc5.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR atof (3),
.BR strtod (3),
.BR strtol (3),
.BR strtoul (3).
