.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sun Dec 29 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH BYTEORDER 3  "29. Dezember 1996" "BSD" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- konvertiere Werte zwischen Rechner- und
Netzwerk-Byteordnung
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int htonl(unsigned long int " hostlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int htons(unsigned short int " hostshort );
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int ntohl(unsigned long int " netlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int ntohs(unsigned short int " netshort );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBhtonl()\fP konvertiert die Langganzzahl \fIhostlong\fP von
Rechner- nach Netzwerk-Byteordnung.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBhtons()\fP konvertiert die Kurzganzzahl \fIhostshort\fP
Rechner- nach Netzwerk-Byteordnung.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBntohl()\fP konvertiert die Langganzzahl \fInetlong\fP
von Netzwerk- nach Rechner-Byteordnung.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBntohs()\fP konvertiert die Kurzganzzahl \fInetshort\fP
von Netzwerk- nach Rechner-Byteordnung.
.PP
Auf dem i80x86 steht in der Rechnerbyteordnung das niederwertigste Byte
zuerst, wogegen in der im Internet benutzten Netzwerkbyteordnung das
höchstwertige Byte zuerst steht.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR getservent (3).
