.\" Copyright 2001 John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Additions, aeb, 2001-10-17.
.\" Translated into German by Daniel Kobras <kobras@linux.de>
.\"
.TH CLEARENV 3 "9. April 2002" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
clearenv \- löscht die Liste der Umgebungsvariablen.
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int clearenv(void);"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBclearenv()\fP löscht alle Name-Werte-Paare aus der
Liste der Umgebungsvariablen.

.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Wurde die Funktion \fBclearenv()\fP erfolgreich ausgeführt, gibt sie null
zurück.  Ein von null verschiedener Rückgabewert zeigt einen Fehler an.

.SH "VERFÜGBARKEIT"
Nicht vorhanden in libc4, libc5.  In glibc seit Version 2.0.

.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Verschiedenen Unix-Varianten (DGUX, HPUX, QNX, ...).
POSIX.9 (Schnittstellen zu FORTRAN77).
POSIX.1-1996 hat \fBclearenv()\fP und \fIputenv()\fP zunächst nicht akzeptiert,
sich jedoch umentschieden und geplant, die Funktionen in einer späteren
Ausgabe des Standards aufzunehmen. (s. B.4.6.1).  SUSv3 enthält jedoch nur
\fIputenv()\fP und hat \fBclearenv()\fP zurückgewiesen.

.SH ANMERKUNGEN
Wird in Programmen verwendet, die Wert auf Sicherheit legen.  Falls die
Funktion selbst nicht verfügbar ist, erfüllt die Zuweisung
.RS
.nf
	environ = NULL;
.fi
.RE
möglicherweise denselben Zweck.

.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR environ (7).
