.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:27:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\" Translation updated Michael Piefel <piefel@informatik.hu-berlin.de>
.\"     (modifications to original were unattributed)
.\"
.TH CLOCK 3  1993-04-21 "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
clock \- Bestimme Prozessorzeit
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.B clock_t clock(void);
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B clock()
gibt eine Näherung der vom Programm benutzten Prozessorzeit zurück.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Der zurückgegebene Wert ist die soweit benutzte CPU-Zeit als ein
.BR clock_t ;
um die Anzahl der Sekunden zu erhalten, teilen Sie durch
.BR CLOCKS_PER_SEC .
Wenn die Prozessorzeit nicht verfügbar oder ihr Wert nicht repräsentierbar
ist, gibt die Funktion (clock_t)-1 zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
ANSI C.
POSIX fordert, dass CLOCKS_PER_SEC gleich 1000000 ist, unabhängig von der
tatsächlichen Auflösung.
.SH "BEMERKUNGEN"
Der C-Standard erlaubt willkürliche Werte zu Beginn des Programms; nehmen
Sie die Differenz der von 
.B clock()
zu Beginn und zum Ende des Programms zurückgegebenen Werte um eine
maximale Portierbarkeit zu erreichen.
.PP
Beachten Sie, dass Zeit überlaufen kann. Auf einem 32-Bit-System, auf dem
CLOCKS_PER_SEC 1000000 ist, wird diese Funktion zirka alle 72 Minuten den
gleichen Wert zurückgeben.
.PP
Der Funktionsaufruf
.B times()
gibt mehr Informationen zurück.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getrusage (2),
.BR times (2).
