.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:51:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Tue Dec 31 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH CTERMID 3  "31. Dezember 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ctermid \- hole Namen des kontrollierenden Terminals
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ctermid(char *" "s" ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B ctermid()
gibt einen String zurück, der den Pfadnamen des aktuell kontrollierenden
Terminals dieses Prozesses entspricht.
Wenn
.I s
.BR NULL
ist wird ein statischer Puffer benutzt, anderenfalls zeigt
.I s
auf einen Puffer für den Pfadnamen.
Die symbolische Konstante
.B L_ctermid
ist die maximale Anzahl von Zeichen im zurückgelieferten Pfadnamen.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Der Zeiger auf den Pfadnamen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX.1
.SH BUGS
Der zurückgelieferte Pfadname muss das kontrollierende Terminal nicht
eindeutig identifizieren; er kann z.B.
.I /dev/tty
sein.
.PP
Es ist nicht sichergestellt, dass das Programm das Terminal öffnen kann.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR ttyname (3).
