.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)daemon.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" Added mentioning of glibc weirdness wrt unistd.h. 5/11/98, Al Viro
.\" Translated into German by Dennis Stampfer <kontakt@dstampfer.de>
.\"
.TH DAEMON 3 "7. September 2002" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
daemon \- im Hintergrund ausführen
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int daemon(int " nochdir ", int " noclose ");
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.BR daemon ()
gibt einem Programm die Möglichkeit, sich selbst vom Terminal in
den Hintergrund zu setzen und dort weiter als System-Dämon zu laufen.
.PP
.BR daemon () 
wechselt das aktuelle Arbeitsverzeichnis nach root ("/"), sofern
.I nochdir
nicht 0 ist.
.PP
.BR daemon ()
leitet die Standardausgabe, Standardeingabe und die Fehlerausgabe nach
.I /dev/null
um, sofern 
.I noclose
nicht 0 ist.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
(Diese Funktion teilt den Prozess und falls
.BR fork ()
erfolgreich ist, führt der Vater ein
.IR _exit (0)
aus, so dass zukünftige Fehlermeldungen nur vom Kind gesehen werden.)
Bei Erfolg wird Null zurückgegeben.
Falls ein Fehler auftritt, liefert
.BR daemon ()
\-1 zurück und setzt die globale Variable
.I errno
zu einem der Fehler, die für die Bibliotheksfunktionen
.BR fork (2)
und 
.BR setsid (2)
beschrieben werden.
.SH BEMERKUNGEN
Die Implementierung in der glibc kann ebenfalls \-1 zurückliefern, wenn
.I /dev/null
existiert, jedoch keine zeichenorientierte Spezialdatei mit den
erwarteten Major- und Minor-Nummern ist.  In diesem Fall muss
.I errno
nicht gesetzt werden.
.SH GESCHICHTE
Die Funktion war erstmals in BSD4.4 zu finden.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR fork (2),
.BR setsid (2).
