.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 Walter Harms <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; version 2 dated June, 1991.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program;  if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.TH DYSIZE 3
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
dysize \- Berechne die Anzahl der Tage in Jahr
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.sp
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "   /* oder: #define _SVID_SOURCE */
.br
.BR "#include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int dysize(int " year );
.sp
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion gibt 365 für normale Jahre und 366 für Schaltjahre zurück.
Die Berechnung der Schaltjahre erfolgt durch:
.sp
(year) %4 == 0 && ((year) %100 != 0 || (year) %400 == 0)
.sp
Die Formel findet sich im Macro
.IR __isleap(year) ,
welches ebenfalls in
.I <time.h>
definiert ist.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Diese Funktion taucht in SunOS 4.x auf.
.SH BEMERKUNGEN
Diese Funktion dient ausschließlich der Kompatibilität.  Verwenden Sie
sie nicht in neuen Programmen.  Die SCO-Version dieser Funktion hatte
ein Jahr-2000-Problem.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR strftime (3),
.BR time (3).
