.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:43:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added a fix from urs@isnogud.escape.de (Urs Thuermann), aeb 950722
.\" Translated into german by Stefan Janke (gonzo@burg.studfb.unibw-muenchen.de)
.\"
.TH EXIT 3 "12. September 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
exit \- bewirkt eine normale Programmbeendigung
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void exit(int " status );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die 
.B exit()
Funktion bewirkt eine normale Programmbeendigung und
der Wert von 
.IR status 
wird an den Elternprozess zurückgegeben. 
Alle Funktionen, die durch 
.B atexit()
und 
.B on_exit()
registriert wurden, werden in der umgekehrten Reihenfolge ihrer
Registrierung aufgerufen.  Außerdem werden alle offenen 
Dateipuffer in die Dateien geschrieben und alle offenen Dateien
geschlossen. 
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die 
.B exit()
Funktion gibt nichts zurück (wegen Programmbeendigung).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR _exit (2),
.BR atexit (3),
.BR on_exit (3).
