.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Aug 14 1995 by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH EXP 3 "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
exp, log, log10, pow - Exponentialfunktion, Logarithmenfunktionen und Potenzfunktionen
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double exp(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log10(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double pow(double " x ", double " y );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B exp
gibt den Wert von e hoch
.I x 
zurück.

Die Funktion 
.B log()
gibt den natürlichen Logarithmus von
.I x
zurück.

Die Funktion
.B log10()
gibt den Logarithmus zur Basis 10 von
.I x
zurück.

Die Funktion
.B pow()
gibt den Wert von 
.I x
hoch 
.I y
zurück.
.SH FEHLER
Die Funktionen
.B log() 
und 
.B log10()
können folgende Fehler zurückliefern:
.TP
.B EDOM
Das Argument
.I x
ist negativ
.TP
.B ERANGE
Das Argument 
.I x 
ist 0.  Der Logarithmus von 0 ist nicht definiert.
.PP
Die Funktion 
.B pow()
kann folgenden Fehler zurückliefern:
.TP
.B EDOM
Das Argument
.I x
ist negativ und das Argument
.I y
ist keine ganze Zahl.
Dies würde eine komplexe Zahl darstellen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sqrt (3),
.BR cbrt (3).



