.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:19:14 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Modified to be fcloseall(3) by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org> Fri Apr 10 1998
.\" Translated into German by Dennis Stampfer <kontakt@dstampfer.de>
.\"
.TH FCLOSE 3 "7. September 2002" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
fcloseall \- schließt alle geöffneten Ströme
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.sp
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.B int fcloseall(void);
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B fcloseall
trennt alle geöffneten Ströme von ihrem eigentlichen Ziel bzw. ihrer
Funktion (also wird z.B. die Verbindung zwischen 
.I stdout
und der Standardausgabe getrennt).  Alle gebufferten Daten zur Ausgabe werden
vor dem Trennen mittels
.B fflush (2)
geschrieben.
.BR
Bitte beachten Sie, dass auch die Standardströme (stdin, stdout und stderr)
geschlossen werden.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERT
Die Funktion gibt immer 0 zurück.
.SH KONFORM ZU
Die 
.B fcloseall
Funktion ist eine GNU Erweiterung.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR fclose (3),
.BR close (2),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
