.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ferror.3	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:24:40 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Translated into german by Roland Krause (Rokrause@aol.com)
.\"
.TH FERROR 3 "18. Januar 1997" "BSD MANPAGE" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
clearerr, feof, ferror, fileno \-
.br
Prüfe und lösche den Status eines Streams (Datenstroms)
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void clearerr( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int feof( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int ferror( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int fileno( FILE *" stream );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B clearerr
löscht Dateiende- und Fehlerkennungen für den Stream
.IR stream.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B feof
prüft die Dateiendekennung für den Stream
.IR stream.
.B feof
liefert ein Ergebnis ungleich 0, wenn die Dateiendekennung gesetzt ist.
Die Dateiendekennung kann nur mit der Funktion
.B clearerr
gelöscht werden.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B ferror
prüft die Fehlerkennung für den Stream
.IR stream.
.B ferror
liefert ein Ergebnis ungleich 0,
wenn die Fehlerkennung gesetzt ist. Die Fehlerkennung kann nur mit der
Funktion
.B clearerr
gelöscht werden.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B fileno
prüft das Argument
.I stream
und liefert seinen Dateideskriptor als integer, wie er von den
Systemfunktionen
.B open ,
.B read ,
.B write
und
.B close
genutzt wird.
.SH FEHLER
Diese Funktionen sollten keinen Fehler liefern und beeinflussen
deshalb auch die externe Fehlervariable
.IR errno
nicht.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR open (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR stdio (3)
.SH STANDARDS
Die Funktionen
.BR clearerr ,
.BR feof ,
and
.BR ferror
sind konform zu C3.159-1989 (ANSI C).

