.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return values
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@finlandia.infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH FREAD 3 "17. August 1996" "BSD MANPAGE" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
fread, fwrite \- Ein- und Ausgabe eines Binärstroms
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t fread( void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.sp
.BI "size_t fwrite( void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B fread
liest
.I nmemb
Datenelemente vom Dateistrom, der mit
.I stream
bezeichnet ist, und speichert es an der Speicherposition, die durch
.I ptr
bestimmt ist.  Jedes davon ist
.I size
Byte lang.

Die Funktion
.B fwrite
schreibt
.I nmemb
Datenelemente der Größe
.I size
Bytes, in den Dateistrom, der durch
.I stream
angegeben ist.  Sie werden von der Speicherstelle, die durch
.I ptr
angegeben ist, gelesen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B fread
und
.B fwrite
geben die Anzahl der erfolgreich geschriebenen oder gelesenen Elemente
zurück (nicht die Anzahl der Zeichen).  Wenn ein Fehler auftritt oder das
Dateiende erreicht ist, wird eine kleinere Zahl oder null zurückgegeben.

.B fread
unterscheidet nicht zwischen Dateiende und richtigem Fehler, der Aufrufer
muss
.BR feof (3)
bzw.
.BR ferror (3)
benutzen, um herauszufinden was passiert ist.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Die Funktionen
.B fread
und
.B fwrite
sind konform zu ANSI C3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR feof (3),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2).
