.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Translated to German Tue Dec 31 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH FSEEK 3  "31. Dezember 1996" "BSD MANPAGE" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
fgetpos, fseek, fsetpos, ftell, rewind \- positioniere einen Stream neu
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseek( FILE *" stream ", long " offset ", int " whence );
.br
.BI "long ftell( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "void rewind( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int fgetpos( FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.br
.BI "int fsetpos( FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B fseek
setzt den Dateipositionszeiger für den Stream, auf den
.IR stream
zeigt.
Die neue Position, gemessen in Byte, wird erreicht durch addieren von
.I offset
zu der Position, die durch
.IR whence
angegeben ist.
Wenn
.I whence
auf
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
oder
.BR SEEK_END ,
gesetzt ist, ist der Offset relativ zum Dateianfang, der aktuellen Position,
oder dem Dateiende.  Ein erfolgreicher Aufruf der Funktion
.B fseek
löscht den Dateiendezeiger für den Stream und macht den Effekt der Funktion
.BR ungetc (3)
Rückgängig für den Stream.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B ftell
holt der aktuellen Wert des Dateipositionszeigers für den Stream, auf den
.IR stream
zeigt.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B rewind
setzt den Dateipositionszeigers für den Stream, auf den
.I stream
zeigt, auf den Dateianfang.  Sie ist äquivalent zu:
.PP
.RS
(void)fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
.PP
außer dass der Fehlerindikator für den Stream auch gelöscht wird (siehe
.BR clearerr (3).
.PP
Die Funktionen
.B fgetpos
und
.B fsetpos
sind alternative Schnittstellen zu
.B ftell
und
.B fseek
(mit whence gesetzt auf
.BR SEEK_SET ),
die den aktuellen Wert des Dateioffsets lesen oder setzen von dem oder auf das
Objekt angegeben durch
.IR pos .
Auf einigen Nicht-UNIX-Systemen kann ein Objekt
.B fpos_t
ein komplexes Objekt sein, und diese Routinen können der einzige Weg sein,
den Dateizeiger portabel zu beeinflussen.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERTE
Die Funktion
.B rewind
gibt keinen Wert zurück.  Bei erfolgreichem Abschluss geben
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.B fsetpos
0 zurück, während
.B ftell
den aktuellen Offset zurückgibt.  Anderenfalls wird \-1 zurückgegeben und die
globale Variable errno gesetzt um den Fehler anzuzeigen.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EBADF
Der angegebene
.I stream
ist nicht positionierbar.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Das Argument
.I whence
für
.B fseek
war nicht
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
oder
.BR SEEK_CUR .
.PP
Die Funktion
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos ,
und 
.B ftell
können auch fehlschlagen und 
.I errno
setzen für Fehler, die für die Routinen
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lseek (2),
und 
.BR malloc (3)
spezifiziert sind.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR lseek (2).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Die Funktionen
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fsetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR ftell ,
und
.BR rewind
sind konform zu ANSI C3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
