.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:23:14 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH FTIME 3 "1. Juli 1996" "Linux" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ftime \- gibt Datum und Uhrzeit zurück
.SH UEBERSICHT
.B "#include <sys/timeb.h>"
.sp
.BI "int ftime(struct timeb *" tp );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Gib die aktuellen Werte für Datum und Uhrzeit in
.IR tp ,
welches wie folgt deklariert ist:
.sp
.in +1i
.nf
struct timeb {
	time_t   time;
	unsigned short millitm;
	short    timezone;
	short    dstflag;
};
.fi
.in -1i
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Diese Funktion gibt immer 0 zurück.
.SH BEMERKUNGEN
Unter Linux ist diese Funktion in einer in einer Kompatibilitaetsbibliothek
anstatt im Kernel implementiert.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
V7, BSD 4.3
.br
Unter BSD 4.3 ist dieser Aufruf überholt durch
.BR gettimeofday (2).
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR time (2)
