.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/dirent.h are:
.\"                    Copyright 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Translated into german 06 June 1996 by Markus Kaufmann
.\"                                        <markus.kaufmann@gmx.de>
.\"
.TH GETDIRENTRIES 3 "6. Juni 1996" "BSD/MISC" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
getdirentries \- Liest Verzeichniseinträge in einem vom Dateisystem
unabhängigen Format
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #define __USE_BSD
oder
.B #define __USE_MISC
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t getdirentries(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " nbytes ","
.BI "off_t *" basep );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Liest die Verzeichniseinträge von dem durch
.I fd
angegebenen Verzeichnis in
.IR buf .
Es werden höchstens
.I nbytes
gelesen. Der Lesevorgang startet beim Offset
.RI * basep ,
welcher nach jedem Lesevorgang aktualisiert wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
.B getdirentries
liefert die Anzahl gelesener Bytes zurück.
Wenn das Verzeichnisende erreicht wurde, dann wird 0 zurückgeliefert.
Trat ein Fehler auf, dann wird \-1 zurückgeliefert und 
.I errno
entsprechend gesetzt.
.SH FEHLER
Für Details sehen sie bitte im Linux Bibliothekssourcecode nach.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR open (2), 
.BR lseek (2).
