.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:28:38 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Translated into german 06 June 1996 by Markus Kaufmann
.\"                                        <markus.kaufmann@gmx.de>
.\"
.TH GETGRNAM 3  "6. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getgrnam, getgrgid \- liest den Usergruppendateieintrag
.PP
Diese Handbuchseite ist veraltet. Im Zweifelsfall ziehen Sie
die englischsprachige Handbuchseite zu Rate, indem Sie
.IP
man -LC 3 getgrnam
.PP
eingeben.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <grp.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "struct group *getgrnam(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct group *getgrgid(gid_t " gid );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die
.BR getgrnam() -Funktion
liefert einen Zeiger auf eine Struktur zurück, die die Gruppeninformation
zur Gruppe
.I name
enthält.  
Diese Information wird aus der Datei 
.I /etc/group 
gelesen.
.PP
Die 
.BR getgrgid() -Funktion
liefert einen Zeiger auf eine Struktur zurück, die die Gruppeninformation
zur Gruppe mit der GID
.I gid
enthält.
Diese Information wird aus der Datei 
.I /etc/group
gelesen.
.PP
Die
.IR group -Struktur 
ist in der Datei
.I <grp.h>
wie folgt definiert:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct group {
        char    *gr_name;        /* Gruppenname */
        char    *gr_passwd;      /* Gruppenpasswort */
        gid_t   gr_gid;          /* Gruppen-id */
        char    **gr_mem;        /* Gruppenmitglieder */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die
.BR getgrnam() -
und
.BR getgrgid() -Funktionen 
liefern die Gruppeninformationsstruktur zurück. Wurde der gesuchte Eintrag
nicht gefunden oder trat ein Fehler auf, dann wird NULL zurückgeliefert.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Zuwenig Speicher um den Speicher für die Gruppeninformationsstruktur zu
belegen.
.SH DATEIEN
.B /etc/group	
Enthält die Informationen über die Gruppen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fgetgrent (3), 
.BR getgrent (3), 
.BR setgrent (3), 
.BR endgrent (3).
