.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Fri Nov 1 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH GETNETENT 3  "1. November 1996" "BSD" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getnetent, getnetbyname, getnetbyaddr, setnetent, endnetent \-
hole Netzwerkeintrag
.PP
Diese Handbuchseite ist veraltet. Im Zweifelsfall ziehen Sie
die englischsprachige Handbuchseite zu Rate, indem Sie
.IP
man -LC 3 getnetent
.PP
eingeben.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct netent *getnetent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyaddr(long " net ", int " type );
.sp
.BI "void setnetent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endnetent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Die Funktion
.B getnetent()
liest die nächste Zeile der Datei
.I /etc/networks
und gibt eine Struktur
.I netent
zurück, die die Felder der Zeile enthält.  Die Datei
.I /etc/networks
wird geöffnet, falls nötig.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B getnetbyname()
gibt eine Struktur
.I netent
zurück für die Zeile aus
.IR /etc/networks ,
die dem Netz
.I name
entspricht.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B getnetbyaddr()
gibt eine Struktur
.I netent
zurück für die Zeile, die der Netznummer
.I net
des Types
.I type
entspricht.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B setnetent()
öffnet die Datei
.I /etc/networks
und setzt den Dateizeiger auf den Anfang.  Wenn
.I stayopen
wahr ist (1), dann wird die Datei nicht geschlossen zwischen Aufrufen von
.BR getnetbyname() " und " getnetbyaddr() .
.PP
Die Funktion
.BR endservent() " schließt " /etc/networks .
.PP
Die Struktur
.I netent
ist definiert in
.I <netdb.h>
wie folgt:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 6
.ta 8n 16n 34n
struct netent {
	char	*n_name;		/* offizieller Netzname */
	char	**n_aliases;		/* Aliasliste */
	int	n_addrtype;		/* Netzadressentyp */
	unsigned long int n_net;	/* Netznummer */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Die Einträge der Struktur
.I netent
sind:
.TP
.I n_name
Der offizielle Name der Netzes.
.TP
.I n_aliases
Eine mit Null beendete Liste von alternativen Namen für das Netz.
.TP
.I n_addrtype
Der Typ der Netznummer; immer AF_INET.
.TP
.I n_net
Die Netznummer in Host-Byte-Ordnung.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen
.BR getnetent() ", " getnetbyname() " und " getnetbyaddr()
geben die Struktur
.I netent
zurück, oder einen NULL-Zeiger wenn ein Fehler auftritt oder das Ende
der Liste erreicht ist.
.SH DATEIEN
.TP
.I /etc/networks
Netzwerkdatenbankdatei
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getprotoent (3),
.BR getservent (3),
.BR networks (5).

