.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:20:36 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@finlandia.infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.TH GETPWNAM 3 "27. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getpwnam, getpwuid \- arbeite mit Passworteintrag
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "struct passwd *getpwnam(const char * " name );
.sp
.BI "struct passwd *getpwuid(uid_t " uid );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B getpwnam()
gibt einen Zeiger auf eine Struktur zurück, die den Inhalt der Zeile
von
.I /etc/passwd
repräsentiert, die dem Benutzernamen
.I name
entspricht.

Die Funktion
.B getpwnam()
gibt einen Zeiger auf eine Struktur zurück, die den Inhalt der Zeile
von
.I /etc/passwd
repräsentiert, die der User ID
.I uid
entspricht.

Die Struktur
.I passwd
ist in
.I <pwd.h>
wie folgt definiert:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;		/* Benutzername */
        char    *pw_passwd;		/* Passwort */
        uid_t   pw_uid;			/* User ID */
        gid_t   pw_gid;			/* Group ID */
        char    *pw_gecos;      	/* Name bzw. GECOS */
        char    *pw_dir;  		/* Home-Verzeichnis */
        char    *pw_shell;      	/* Loginshell */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen
.B getpwnam()
und
.B getpwuid()
geben die
.IR passwd \-struktur
zurück oder NULL, wenn kein passender Eintrag gefunden wurde oder ein
anderer Fehler aufgetreten ist.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Es ist nicht ausreichend Speicher vorhanden, um Speicher für eine
.IR passwd \-Struktur
zu alloziieren.
.SH DATEIEN
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
Passwortdatenbank
.fi
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpw (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5).
