.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:19:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Oct 18 20:23:54 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Apr 22 01:50:54 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Translated to German Fri Nov 1 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@gulu.net)
.\"
.TH GETSERVENT 3  "1. November 1996" "BSD" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
getservent, getservbyname, getservbyport, setservent, endservent \-
hole Dienstdateieintrag
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct servent *getservent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyname(const char *" name ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyport(int " port ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "void setservent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endservent(void);
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBgetservent()\fP liest die nächste Zeile der Datei
\fI/etc/services\fP und gibt eine Struktur \fIservent\fP zurück, die die
Felder der Zeile enthält.  Die Datei \fI/etc/services\fP wird geöffnet,
falls nötig.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBgetservbyname()\fP gibt eine Struktur \fIservent\fP zurück
für die Zeile aus \fI/etc/services\fP die dem Dienst \fIname\fP entspricht,
der Protokoll \fIproto\fP benutzt.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBgetservbyport()\fP gibt eine Struktur \fIservent\fP zurück
für die Zeile, die dem Port \fIport\fP, angegeben in Netzwerk-Byte-Ordnung,
entspricht, der Protokoll \fIproto\fP benutzt.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBsetservent()\fP öffnet die Datei \fI/etc/services\fP und setzt
den Dateizeigen auf den Anfang.  Wenn \fIstayopen\fP wahr (1) ist, dann wird
die Datei nicht geschlossen zwischen Aufrugen von \fBgetservbyname()\fP und
\fBgetservbyport()\fP.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBendservent()\fP schließt \fI/etc/services\fP.
.PP
Die Struktur \fIservent\fP ist in \fI<netdb.h>\fP wie folgt definiert:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 6
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct servent {
	char	*s_name;		/* offizieller Dienstname */
	char	**s_aliases;		/* Aliasliste */
	int	s_port;			/* Portnummer */
	char	*s_proto;		/* zu benutzendes Protokoll */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Die Einträge der Struktur \fIservent\fP sind:
.TP
.I s_name
Der offizielle Name der Dienstes.
.TP
.I s_aliases
Eine mit Null beendete Liste von alternativen Namen für den Dienst.
.TP
.I s_port
Die Portnummer angegeben in Netzwerk-Byte-Ordnung.
.TP
.I s_proto
Der Name des Protokolles, das mit diesem Dienst zu benutzen ist.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen \fBgetservent()\fP, \fBgetservbyname()\fP und \fBgetservbyport()\fP
geben die Struktur \fIservent\fP zurück oder einen NULL-Zeiger wenn ein Fehler
auftritt bzw. das Ende der Liste erreicht ist.
.SH DATEIEN
.TP
.I /etc/services
Dienstdatenbankdatei
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getprotoent (3),
.BR getnetent (3),
.BR services (5).
