.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:17:53 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sun Dec 1 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@gulu.net)
.\"
.TH GETUSERSHELL 3  "1. Dezember 1996" "BSD" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
getusershell, setusershell, endusershell \- hole zulässige Benutzershells
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B char *getusershell(void);
.sp
.B void setusershell(void);
.sp
.B void endusershell(void);
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBgetusershell()\fP gibt die nächste Zeile der Datzei
\fI/etc/shells\fP zurück und öffnet die Datei, falls nötig.  Die Zeile
sollte einen Pfadnamen einer zulässigen Benutzershell enthalten.  Wenn
\fI/etc/shells\fP nicht existiert oder nicht lesbar ist, verhält sich 
\fBgetusershell()\fP so, als wenn \fI/bin/sh\fP und \fI/bin/csh\fP in
der Datei aufgelistet wären.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBsetusershell()\fP setzt den Dateizeiger von
\fI/etc/shells\fP zurück.
.PP
Die Funktion \fBendusershell()\fP schließt \fI/etc/shells\fP.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion \fBgetusershell()\fP gibt einen NULL-Zeiger zurück, wenn
das Dateiende erreicht ist .
.SH DATEIEN
.TP
.I /etc/shells
Gültige Benutzershells
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR shells (5).
