.\" (c) 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Translated into german by Stefan Janke (gonzo@burg.studfb.unibw-muenchen.de)
.\"
.TH GETW 3 "12. September 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
getw, putw \- Ein- und Ausgabe eines word-Wertes (Integer-Wert)
.PP
Diese Handbuchseite ist veraltet. Im Zweifelsfall ziehen Sie
die englischsprachige Handbuchseite zu Rate, indem Sie
.IP
man -LC 3 getw
.PP
eingeben.
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getw(FILE *" stream ");"
.nl
.BI "int putw(int " w ", FILE *" stream ");"
.nl
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B getw
liest ein Wort (also einen 
.BR int ) 
von 
.IR stream .
Es ist nur noch wegen Kompatibilität mit SVID vorhanden.
Deshalb wird die Verwendung 
.BR fread (3) 
anstelle
.B getw
vorgeschlagen. 
.P
.B putw
schreibt das Wort 
.IR w
(also einen
.BR int ) 
nach
.IR stream.  
Es ist nur noch wegen Kompatibilität mit SVID
vorhanden, deshalb wird die Verwendung von 
.BR fwrite (3) 
empfohlen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Normalerweiser liefert  
.B getw 
das gelesene Wort und 
.B putw
das Wort, das geschrieben wurde. Im Fehlerfall wird 
.B EOF
zurückgegeben.
.SH BUGS
Der Wert, der im Fehlerfall zurückgeliefert wird, ist auch ein
legitimer.  
.BR ferror (3) 
kann dazu benutzt werden, zwischen diesen beiden Fällen zu
unterscheiden.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fread (3),
.BR fwrite (3),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR getc (3),
.BR putc (3).
