.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:54:34 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:13:52 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 00:54:10 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH INDEX 3 "4. Mai 1996" GNU "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
index, rindex \- finde ein Zeichen im String
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *index(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *rindex(const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B index()
gibt einen Zeiger auf die erste Position des Zeichens
.I c
im String
.I s
zurück.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B rindex()
gibt einen Zeiger auf die letzte Position des Zeichens
.I c
im String
.I s
zurück.
.PP
Das abschließende NULL-Zeichen gehört hier mit zum String
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen
.I index()
und
.I rindex()
geben einen Zeiger auf das gefundene Zeichen zurück oder NULL, wenn
es nicht gefunden wurde.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH""
.BR memchr (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3).
