.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:11:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH INFNAM 3 "5. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
infnam - Behandlung von unendlich und Not-a-Number (NaN)
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double infnan(int " error );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B infnam()
gibt einen brauchbaren Wert für unendlich oder NaN zurück.
Der Wert von 
.I error
kann
.I ERANGE
sein, was unendlich bedeutet oder
jeder andere Wert für NaN.
Die Variable
.I errno 
wird ebenfalls gesetzt.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Wenn 
.I error
ERANGE (unendlich) ist, wird
.I HUGE_VAL 
zurückgegeben.
.PP
Wenn 
.I error
-ERANGE (- unendlich) ist, wird
.I -HUGE_VAL
zurückgegeben.
.PP
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ERANGE
Der Wert von 
.I error
ist positiv oder - unendlich.
.TP
.B EDOM
Der Wert von
.I error
ist NaN.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3



