.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:04:55 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Thu Jun 06 15:30:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH KILLPG 3  "6. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
killpg \- sende ein Signal an alle Mitglieder einer Prozessgruppe
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(pid_t " pidgrp ", int " signal ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B killpg()
verursacht, dass das Signal
.I signal
an alle Prozesse der Prozessgruppe
.I pidgrp
gesendet wird, oder zu der Gruppe des eigenen Prozesses, wenn
.I pidgrp
gleich Null ist.
.PP
Es ist äquivalent zu
.nf
.sp
.BI kill(- pidgrp , signal );
.fi
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Der Rückgabewert ist \-1 im Fehlerfall, 0 bei Erfolg.
.SH FEHLER
Fehler werden in 
.I errno
zurückgegeben und können wie folgt sein:
.TP
.B EINVAL
bei einem ungültiges Signal.
.TP
.B ESRCH
bei einer nicht existierenden Prozessgruppe, und
.TP
.BR EPERM ,
wenn die User-ID des aufrufenden Prozesses nicht gleich der des Prozesses ist,
an den das Signal gesendet wird, und die User-ID nicht die des Super-Users ist.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7).
