.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:01:20 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH LOCALECONV 3  "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
localeconv \- hole numerische Formattierungsinformationen
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <locale.h>
.sp
.B struct lconv *localeconf(void);
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B localeconf()
gibt einen Zeiger auf eine
.B struct lconv
zurück für die aktuelle Locale.  Die Struktur ist ebenfalls im der
Header-Datei
.B "locale.h"
definiert und enthält alle Einträge aus den Lokale-Kategorien
.B LC_NUMERIC
und
.B LC_MONETARY.

Die meisten Programme müssen diese Werte nicht direkt verwenden,
sondern können die Funktionen
.B printf()
und
.B strfmon()
verwenden.

Locale ist eine Erweiterung der Standard 
.B ""C""
Bibliothek, die Unterstützung für verschiedene Länder bzw. Standards
bietet.

.SH "KONFORM ZU"
ANSI C, POSIX.1
.PP
Linux unterstüzt die portablen Locales
.BR """C""" " and " """POSIX"""
und auch die europäische Latin-1 
.B """ISO-8859-1"""
und die russische
.BR """KOI-8""" .
.PP

.SH WARNUNG
Die Funktionenfamilie
.B printf()
kann, muß aber nicht, die aktuelle Locale berücksichtigen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR locale (1),
.BR localedef (1),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR stfmon (3),
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR strftime (3),
.BR locale (7).
