.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:57:24 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Translated into german 06 June 1996 by Markus Kaufmann
.\"                                        <markus.kaufmann@gmx.de>
.\"
.TH MEMCCPY 3  "6. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
memccpy \- kopiert einen Speicherbereich
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memccpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die
.BR memccpy() -Funktion
kopiert höchstens
.I n
Bytes vom Speicherbereich
.I src
zum Speicherbereich
.I dest
und stoppt dabei, wenn das Zeichen
.I c
gefunden wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die
.BR memccpy() -Funktion 
liefert einer Zeiger zurück, der im Bereich von
.I dest
auf das nächste Zeichen nach
.I c
zeigt oder NULL, falls 
.I c
in den ersten
.I n
Zeichen von 
.I src
nicht gefunden wurde.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR strcpy (3),
.BR strncpy (3).
