.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:54:45 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat Oct 26 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@gulu.net)
.\"
.TH MEMFROB 3  "26. Oktober 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
memfrob \- frobniziere (verschüssle) einen Speicherbereich
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memfrob(void *" s ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBmemfrob()\fP verschlüsselt die ersten \fIn\fP Byte des
Speicherbereichs \fIs\fP durch die Exclusiv-Oder-Verknüpfung jedes Zeichens
mit der Zahl 42.  Der Effekt kann umgekehrt werden durch Anwenden
von \fBmemfrob()\fP auf den verschlüsselten Speicherbereich.
.PP
Beachte, daß diese Funktion keine richtige Verschlüsselungsroutine ist, da die
XOR-Konstante fest ist, und daß diese Funktion damit nur gut ist, und Strings
zu verstecken.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion \fBmemfrob()\fP gibt einen Zeiger auf den verschlüsselten 
Speicherbereich zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
Die Funktion \fBmemfrob()\fP ist einzig in der Linux C-Bibliothek und der
GNU C-Bibliothek.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR strfry (3).
