.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Jun 23 01:26:34 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" (prompted by Scott Burkett <scottb@IntNet.net>)
.\" Translated into German by Andreas D. Preissig (andreas@sanix.ruhr.de)     
.\"
.TH MKTEMP 3  "3. August 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
mktemp \- Erzeugung eines eindeutigen temporären Dateinamens 
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "char *mktemp(char *" template );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion 
.B mktemp()
erzeugt einen eindeutigen, temporären Dateinamen.
Dieser Name wird aus 
.I template
erzeugt.  Dazu müssen die letzten sechs Buchstaben des Parameters
.I template
XXXXXX sein, diese werden dann durch eine Zeichenfolge ersetzt, die
diesen Dateinamen eindeutig macht. 
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion 
.B mktemp ()
gibt bei Erfolg einen Zeiger auf 
.I template 
zurück.  Bei einem Fehler ist der Rückgabewert NULL.
.SH "FEHLER"
.TP
.B EINVAL
Die letzten sechs Buchstaben von 
.I template 
waren nicht XXXXXX.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3. POSIX schreibt als Funktionsaufruf tmpnam() vor.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR tmpnam (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3).
