.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Fri Apr  2 18:41:36 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:53:14 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Stefan Janke (gonzo@burg.studfb.unibw-muenchen.de)
.\"
.TH ON_EXIT 3 "12. September 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
on_exit \- registriert eine Funktion, damit diese bei normaler
Programmbeendigung aufgerufen wird
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int on_exit(void (*" function ")(int , void *), void *" arg );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die 
.B on_exit()
Funktion registriert die angegebene Funktion
.IR function ,
damit diese bei normaler Programmbeendigung aufgerufen
wird.  Also durch 
.BR exit (3)
oder durch ein return in der Main-Funktion des Programms.
Der Funktion 
.IR function 
wird das Argument von 
.BR exit (3)
und die 
.IR arg
Argumente von 
.B on_exit() 
übergeben.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die
.B on_exit()
Funktion gibt im Erfolgsfall 0 zurück, andernfalls wird \-1
zurückgeliefert. 
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR exit (3),
.BR atexit (3).
