.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:46:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Translated into german 02 June 1996 by Markus Kaufmann
.\"                                        <markus.kaufmann@gmx.de>
.\"
.TH OPENDIR 3  "2. Juni 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
opendir \- öffnet eine Verzeichnisdatei
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "DIR *opendir(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die 
.BR opendir() \-Funktion
öffnet die Verzeichnisdatei des Verzeichnisses
.I name
und liefert einen Zeiger auf den ersten Eintrag des Verzeichnisses zurück.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die 
.BR opendir() \-Funktion
liefert einen Zeiger auf die Verzeichnisdatei zurück. 
Trat ein Fehler auf,
so wird ein NULL-Zeiger zurückgeliefert.
.SH "FEHLER"
.TP
.B EACESS
Zugriff verweigert.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Der Prozess benutzt zu viele Dateideskriptoren.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Auf diesem System sind zurzeit zu viele Dateien gleichzeitig geöffnet.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Verzeichnis existiert nicht, oder
.I name
ist ein leerer String.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Zuwenig Speicher um den Vorgang zu beenden.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.I name
ist kein Verzeichnis.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR open (2),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3),
.BR scandir (3).
