.\" Copyright 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into German by Maik Messerschmidt (Maik.Messerschmidt@gmx.net)
.\"
.TH POW10 3 "6. April 2006" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
pow10, pow10f, pow10l \- Potenzfunktionen mit der Basis 10
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double pow10(double " x );
.br
.BI "float pow10f(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double pow10l(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Mit der Option \-lm linken.
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die
.BR pow10()
Funktion gibt die
.IR x
te Potenz von 10 zurück.
.SH KONFORM ZU
Dies ist eine GNU-Erweiterung.
.SH ANMERKUNG
Diese Funktionen sind identisch mit jenen, welche unter
.BR exp10 (3)
aufgelistet sind.
.SH SIEHE AUCH
.BR exp10 (3),
.BR pow (3),
