.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:45:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into German Sat May 18 15:10:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH PSIGNAL 3  "17. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
psignal \- drucke Signalnachricht
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "void psignal(int " sig ", const char *" s );
.sp
.BI "extern const char *const " sys_siglist []
.fi
.SH BESCHEIBUNG
Die Funktion 
.B psignal()
gibt eine Nachricht auf 
.I stderr
aus, die aus dem String
.IR s ,
einem Punkt, einem Leerzeichen und einem String
.IR sig ,
der die Signalnummer beschreibt, besteht.  Wenn
.I sig
ungültig ist, indiziert die angezeigte Nachricht ein ungültiges Signal.
.PP
Das Feld
.I sys_siglist
enthält die Zeichenketten, die die Signale beschreiben, indiziert
nach Signalnummer.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B psignal()
gibt keinen Wert zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR perror (3),
.BR strsignal (3).
