.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Thu Apr  8 15:00:12 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:44:45 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 01 16:34:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\" Modified Mon Jun 10 01:10:49 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH PUTENV 3  "18. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktion"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
putenv \- ändere eine Umgebungsvariable oder füge eine hinzu
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int putenv(const char *" string );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B putenv()
ändert den Wert von Umgebungsvariablen oder fügt eine in den
Umgebungsbereich hinzu.  Das Argument
.I string
hat die Form 
.IR "name = value" .
Wenn
.I name
noch nicht im Umgebungsbereich existiert, dann wird 
.I string
zum Umgebungsbereich hinzugefügt.  Wenn
.I name
existiert, dann wird der Wert von
.I name
im Umgebungsbereich auf
.I value
geändert.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B putenv()
gibt bei Erfolg null zurück und \-1 wenn ein Fehler auftrat.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Nicht ausreichend Speicher vorhanden um neuen Umgebungsbereich zu belegen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR clearenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR environ (7).

