.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:43:46 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat May 18 18:15:00 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH PUTPWENT 3  "18. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
putpwent \- schreibe einen Passwortdatei-Eintrag
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int putpwent(const struct passwd *" p ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B putpwent()
schreibt einen Paßworteintrag der Struktur
.I p
in die Datei, die mit
.I stream
verbunden ist.
.PP
Die Strktur
.I passwd
ist definiert in
.I <pwd.h>
wie folgt:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;		/* Benutzername */
        char    *pw_passwd;		/* Benutzerpaßwort */
        uid_t   pw_uid;			/* Benutzerkennzahl */
        gid_t   pw_gid;			/* Gruppenkennzahl */
        char    *pw_gecos;      	/* wirklicher Name */
        char    *pw_dir;  		/* Heimatverzeichnis */
        char    *pw_shell;      	/* Shellprogramm */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B putpwent()
gibt bei Erfolg 0 zurück und \-1 wenn ein Fehler auftrat.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EINVAL
Ungültiges (NULL) Argument angegeben.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3), 
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR getpw (3).

