.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:42:59 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat May 18 18:45:00 1996 by Patrick Rother (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH PUTS 3  "18. Mai 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
fputc, fputs, putc, putchar, puts \- Ausgabe von Zeichen und Zeichenketten (Strings)
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fputc(int " c ", FILE *" stream ");"
.nl
.BI "int fputs(const char *" "s" ", FILE *" "stream" ");"
.nl
.BI "int putc(int " c ", FILE *" stream ");"
.nl
.BI "int putchar(int " c ");"
.nl
.BI "int puts(char *" "s" ");"
.nl
.BI "int ungetc(int " c ", FILE *" stream ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B fputc()
schreibt das Zeichen
.IR c ,
umgesetzt in ein
.BR "unsigned char" ,
in den Ausgabestrom
.IR stream .
.PP
.B fputs()
schreibt die Zeichenkette
.I s
in den Ausgabestrom
.IR stream ,
ohne sein nachfolgendes
.BR '\e0' .
.PP
.B putc()
entspricht
.B fputc()
außer, daß es als ein Makro implementiert den
.I stream
mehr als einmal auswertet.
.PP
.BI "putchar(" c );
entspricht
.BI "putc(" c , stdout )\fR.
.PP
.BR puts() 
schreibt die Zeichenkette
.I s
und einen nachfolgende Zeilenumbruch in die Standardausgabe
.IR stdout .
.PP
Aufrufe der hier beschriebenen Funktionen können untereinander und mit
anderen Aufrufen von Ausgabefunktionen der Bibliothek
.B stdio
für den selben Ausgabekanal gemischt werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERTE"
.BR fputc() , " putc() " und " putchar()"
geben das als ein
.B unsigned char
geschriebene und in ein
.B int
umgesetzte Zeichen zurück, oder
.B EOF
im Fehlerfall.
.PP
.BR puts() " und " fputs()
geben bei Erfolg eine nichtnegative Zahl zurück, oder
.B EOF
im Fehlerfall.
.PP
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
ANSI - C, POSIX.1
.SH "BUGS"
Es ist nicht ratsam Aufrufe von Ausgabefunktionen der Bibliothek
.B stdio
mit low-level - Aufrufen von
.B write() 
zu vermischen, wenn der Dateideskriptor den selben Ausgabekanal
bezeichnet.  Die Ergebnisse sind undefiniert und sehr wahrscheinlich
nicht die gewünschten.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR write (2),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR fwrite (3),
.BR scanf (3),
.BR gets (3),
.BR fseek (3),
.BR error (3).
