.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:47:58 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:41:27 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Thu Jun 06 15:30:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH QSORT 3  "6. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
qsort \- sortiert ein Array
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void qsort(void *" base ", size_t " nmemb ", size_t " size ,
.RS
.BI "int (*" compar ")(const void *, const void *))"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion \fBqsort()\fP sortiert ein Array mit \fInmemb\fP Elementen der
Größe \fIsize\fP.  Das Argument \fIbase\fP zeigt auf den Anfang des Arrays.
.PP
Die Inhalte des Arrays werden in aufsteigender Reihenfolge sortiert bezogen
auf eine Vergleichsfunktion, auf die \fIcompar\fP zeigt, welche mit zwei
Argumenten aufgerufen wird, die auf die zu vergleichenden Objekte zeigen.
.PP
Die Vergleichsfunktion muß eine Ganzzahl zurückgeben, die kleiner Null,
gleich Null oder größer Null ist, je nachdem, ob das erste Argument kleiner,
gleich oder größer als das zweite ist.  Wenn zwei Felder des Array gleich sind
ist ihre Reihenfolge unbestimmt.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion \fBqsort()\fP gibt keinen Wert zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sort (1)
