.\" Copyright (C), 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Wed Jun 14 16:10:28 BST 1995 Wilf. (G.Wilford@@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Translated into German by Ralf Demmer, Translation & Consulting
.\" rdemmer@rdemmer.de, http://www.rdemmer.de
.\" Berlin, 20.4.1999
.\"
.TH re_comp 3 "20. April 1999" Linux "GNU"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
re_comp, re_exec \- BSD regex Funktionen
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <regex.h>
.sp
.BI "char *re_comp(char *" regex );
.br
.BI "int re_exec(char *" string );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B re_comp
wird für die Übersetzung des mit NULL abgeschlossenen regulären 
Suchausdruckes verwendet, auf den 
.IR regex 
verweist.
Das übersetzte Muster belegt einen festgelegten Bereich, den Muster-Puffer, 
welcher bei jeder darauf folgenden Verwendung von 
.BR re_comp 
überschrieben wird.
Ist 
.I regex
gleich
.BR NULL ,
so wird keine Operation ausgeführt und der Muster-Puffer bleibt unverändert.

.B re_exec
wird verwendet, um festzustellen, ob die mit NULL abgeschlossene Zeichenkette 
auf die 
.I string
verweist, mit der vorher übersetzten 
.IR regex 
übereinstimmt.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
.B re_comp
gibt bei erfolgter Übersetzung 
.B NULL
zurück. Andernfalls ist der Rückgabewert von 
.I regex
ein Zeiger auf eine entsprechende Fehlermeldung.

.B re_exec
gibt 1 bei Übereinstimmung und andernfalls 0 zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR regex (7),
.BR "GNU regex manual" .
