.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:09:49 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 22 April 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@Linux.de>
.\"  included struct dirent
.\" Translated into german 31 May 1996 by Markus Kaufmann 
.\"                                       <markus.kaufmann@gmx.de>
.\"
.TH READDIR 3  "31. Mai 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
readdir \- Liest einen Verzeichniseintrag
.PP
Diese Handbuchseite ist veraltet. Im Zweifelsfall ziehen Sie
die englischsprachige Handbuchseite zu Rate, indem Sie
.IP
man -LC 3 readdir
.PP
eingeben.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "struct dirent *readdir(DIR *" dir );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die 
.BR readdir() -Funktion
liefert einen Zeiger auf eine 
.IR dirent -Struktur 
zurück, welcher auf den nächsten Verzeichniseintrag zeigt.  
.I Dir
muss dabei auf eine Verzeichnisdatei ("directory stream") 
zeigen.  Wenn das Dateiende
erreicht wurde oder ein Fehler auftrat, dann wird ein NULL-Zeiger
zurückgeliefert.

.PP
Wird 
.B readdir()
mehrfach für ein Verzeichnis aufgerufen,
dann überschreiben die nachfolgenden Aufrufe die Daten, die von den
vorigen 
.BR readdir() \-Aufrufen 
zurückgeliefert wurden. 
.PP
Die
.IR dirent \-Struktur 
ist in
.I <linux/dirent.h>
folgendermaßen definiert:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct dirent {
        long            d_ino;		/* Inode Nummer */
        off_t           d_off;		/* Offset zum nächsten dirent */
        unsigned short  d_reclen;	/* Länge dieses Eintrags */
        char            d_name[NAME_MAX+1]; /* Dateiname */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die 
.BR readdir() \-Funktion
liefert einen Zeiger auf eine 
.IR dirent -Struktur
zurück.  Wenn das Dateiende
erreicht wurde oder ein Fehler auftrat, dann wird ein NULL-Zeiger
zurückgeliefert.

.SH "FEHLER"
.TP
.B EBADF
.I dir
ist kein gültiger Zeiger auf eine Verzeichnisdatei.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR read (2),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR closedir (3), 
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir (3), 
.BR telldir (3), 
.BR scandir (3).
