.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 01 16:40:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH SETENV 3  "1. Juni 1996" "BSD" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
setenv \- ändere eine Umgebungsvariable oder füge eine hinzu
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int setenv(const char *" name ", const char *" value ", int " overwrite );
.sp
.BI "void unsetenv(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B setenv()
fügt die Variable
.I name
mit dem Wert
.I value
zum Umgebungsbereich hinzu, wenn
.I name
nicht schon existiert.  Wenn
.I name
schon im Umgebungsbereich existiert, dann wird der Wert nach
.I value
geändert, wenn
.I overwrite
nicht Null ist; wenn
.I overwrite
Null ist, dann wird der Wert von
.I name
nicht geändert.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B unsetenv()
löscht die Variable
.I name
aus dem Umgebungsbereich.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B setenv()
gibt Null zurück bei Erfolg, oder \-1 wenn zu wenig Speicherplatz im
Umgebungsbereich verhanden war.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3).

