.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Battersby
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Translated to German Fri Jan 03 1997 by Patrick Rother (krd@gulu.net)
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 "3. Januar 1997" "Linux 1.0" "Bibliotheksfunkionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
sigemptyset, sigfillset, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigismember \- POSIX
Signalsatzoperationen.
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int sigemptyset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigfillset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigaddset(sigset_t *" set ", const int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigdelset(sigset_t *" set ", const int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigismember(const sigset_t *" set ", const int " signum );
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die FUnktionen
.BR sigsetops (3)
erlauben die Manipulation von POSIX-Signalsätzen.
.PP
.B sigemptyset
initialisiert den durch
.I set
gegebenen Signalsatz auf `leer', mit allen Signalen ausgeschlossen.
.PP
.B sigfillset
initialisiert
.I set
auf `voll', mit allen Signalen eingeschlossen.
.PP
.B sigaddset 
und
.B sigdelset
fügen hinzu bzw. löschen Signal
.I signum
aus
.IR set .
.PP
.B sigismember
testet ob
.I signum
in
.I set
gesetzt ist.
.SH RÜCKGABEWERTE
.BR sigemptyset ", " sigfullset ", " sigaddset
und
.B sigdelset 
geben 0 zurück bei Erfolg und -1 im Fehlerfall.
.PP
.B sigismember
gibt 1 zurück wenn
.I signum
in
.IR set
gesetzt ist, 0 wenn
.I signum
nicht gesetzt ist, und -1 im Fehlerfall.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sig
ist kein gültiges Signal.
.SH "KONFORM zu"
POSIX
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigpending (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2).
