.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:16:02 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH SLEEP 3  "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
sleep \- schlafe für eine angegebene Anzahl von Sekunden
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int sleep(unsigned int " "seconds" ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
.B sleep()
lässt den aktuellen Prozess schlafen bis
.I seconds
Sekunden abgelaufen sind oder ein Signal eintrifft welches nicht ignoriert
wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Null, wenn die geforderte Zeit abgelaufen ist, oder die Anzahl der Sekunden,
die noch geschlafen werden sollte.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX.1
.SH "BUGS"
.B sleep()
kann implementiert sein durch die Verwendung von
.BR SIGALRM .
Daher ist es keine gute Idee, Aufrufen von
.B alarm()
und
.B sleep() 
zu mischen.
.PP
Die Benutzung von
.B longjmp()
von einem Signalbehandler oder das Ändern der Behandlung von
.B SIGALRM
während des Schlafens erzeugt undefinierte Ergebnisse.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR signal (2),
.BR alarm (2).
