.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:06:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 25 23:17:51 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@vieta.math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH STRCPY 3 "1. September 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strcpy, strncpy \- kopiert eine Zeichenkette 
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion 
.B strcpy()
kopiert die Zeichenkette, auf die der Zeiger 
.I src 
zeigt, inklusive des Endezeichens `\\0' an die Stelle, auf die 
.I dest
zeigt.
Die Zeichenketten dürfen sich nicht überlappen und 
.I dest
muss groß genug sein.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B strncpy()
tut dasselbe mit dem Unterschied, dass nur die ersten
.I n
Byte von
.I src
kopiert werden.
Ist kein `\\0' innerhalb der ersten
.I n
Bytes,so wird das Ergebnis nicht durch `\\0' abgeschlossen.
.PP
Ist die Länge von
.I src
kleiner als 
.I n 
Bytes, so wird 
.I dest
mit Nullen aufgefüllt.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen
.B strcpy()
und strncpy() 
geben einen Zeiger auf 
.I dest
zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3).
