.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:08:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by  (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH STRCMP 3 "1. Septemper 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strcmp, strncmp \- vergleicht zwei Strings miteinander 
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "int strncmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B strcmp()
vergleicht die beiden Strings
.I s1
und
.I s2
miteinander. Sie gibt eine ganze Zahl kleiner, gleich oder größer als
Null zurück, wenn s1 gefunden wurde und kleiner, gleich oder größer als
.I s2 
ist.
.PP
Die Funktion
.B strncmp()
funktioniert genauso mit der Ausnahme, daß nur die ersten
.I n
Buchstaben von
.I s1
verglichen werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktionen
.B strcmp()
und
.B strncmp()
geben eine ganze Zahl zurück, die kleiner, gleich oder größer als Null
ist, wenn
.I s1
gefunden wurde und kleiner, gleich oder größer als 
.I s2
ist ( bzw die ersten
.I n
Buchstaben von
.IR s1 ).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR casecmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3).
