.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@vieta.math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH STRDUP 3 "1. Septemper 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strdup \- dupliziert eine Zeichenkette 
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strdup(const char *" s );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B strdup()
gibt einen Zeiger auf eine neue Zeichenkette, die eine Kopie der 
Zeichenkette
.I s
ist.
Der Speicher für die neue Zeichenkette wird mit
.BR malloc (3)
reserviert und kann mit 
.BR free (3)
wieder freigegeben werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B strdup()
gibt einen Zeiger auf die Kopie zurück oder NULL, wenn nicht
genügend Speicher vorhanden ist.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Es ist zuwenig Speicher für die Kopie vorhanden.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR calloc (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR realloc (3),
.BR free (3).

