.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:05:30 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 16 14:25:17 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@vieta.math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH STRERROR 3 "1. September 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strerror \- gibt die Zeichenkette zurück, die den Fehlercode beschreibt 
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strerror(int " errnum );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B strerror()
gibt eine Zeichenkette zurück, die den Fehlercode beschreibt, dessen
Nummer
.I errnum
ist. Die Zeichenkette kann nur bis zum nächsten Aufruf von
.B strerror()
benutzt werden.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B strerror()
gibt die beschreibende Zeichenkette zurück oder eine Nachricht
unknown error, wenn der Fehlercode unbekannt ist.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR errno (2),
.BR perror (3),
.BR strsignal (3).
