.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strtod.3	5.3 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 17:16:22 1994 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@vieta.math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH STRTOD 3 "1. September 1996" "" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
strtod \- konvertiert eine ASCII Zeichenkette nach double 
.PP
Diese Handbuchseite ist veraltet. Im Zweifelsfall ziehen Sie
die englischsprachige Handbuchseite zu Rate, indem Sie
.IP
man -LC 3 strtod
.PP
eingeben.
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "double strtod(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.BR strtod()
konvertiert die Zeichenkette, auf die
.I nptr
zeigt, buchstabenweise in eine
.BR double \-Darstellung.

Es wird folgende Form der Zeichenkette erwartet :
ein optionales Plus (``+'') oder Minus (``-'') gefolgt von einer
Folge von Zahlen mit einem optionalen Dezimalpunkt oder einem Exponent.
Ein Exponent besteht aud einem ``E'' oder ``e'', gefolgt von einem 
optionalen Plus oder Minus und einer Folge von Zahlen.
Führende Zeichen in der Zeichenkette (wie durch die Funktion
.BR isspace (3) 
definiert) werden überlesen.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B strtod
liefert den konvertierten Wert zurück, wenn er existiert.

Wenn 
.I endptr
nicht 
.I NULL 
ist, wird dort ein Zeiger auf das erste Zeichen gespeichert, das nicht
mehr zur Konvertierung herangezogen worden ist.

Wenn keine Konvertierung stattgefunden hat, wird 0 zurückgeliefert 
und der Wert von
.I nptr
an der Stelle 	
.IR endptr
gespeichert.

Wenn der korrekte Wert einen Überlauf verursacht, wird
.B HUGE_VAL
zurückgeliefert ( in Abhängigkeit des Vorzeichens des Wertes )
und 
.B ERANGE
wird in 
.I errno 
gespeichert.
Verursacht der korrekte Werte einen negativen Überlauf, wird 0
zurückgegebene und 
.B ERANGE
wird in
.I errno 
gespeichert.
.SH FEHLER
.TP
.B ERANGE
Es hat ein Überlauf stattgefunden.
.SH STANDARDS
Die Funktion
.B strtod()
konvertiert nach ANSI-C.
.SH BUGS
Dies ist eine BSD-Manpage und muss nicht die momentane Linux-Implementierung widerspiegeln.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR atof (3),
.BR atoi (3),
.BR atol (3),
.BR strtol (3),
.BR strtoul (3).

