.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:52:15 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH SWAB 3  "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
swab \- vertausche benachbarte Bytes
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void swab(const void *" from ", void *" to ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B swab()
kopiert
.I n
Byte aus einen Array, auf das 
.IR from ,
zeigt, in ein Array, auf das
.I to
zeigt, wobei benachbarete gerade und ungerade Bytes vertauscht werden. 
Diese Funktion wird benutzt um Daten zwischen Maschinen auszutauschen,
die verschiedene Anordnungen von nieder- und höherwertigen Bytes haben.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B swab()
gibt keinen Wert zurück.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR bstring (3)

