.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:46:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 29 15:30:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH TMPFILE 3  "29. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
tmpfile \- erzeuge eine temporäre Datei
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.B FILE *tmpfile (void);
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B tmpfile()
generiert einen eindeutigen temporären Dateinamen indem sie den Pfad-Prefix
.I P_tmpdir
benutzt, welches in
.I <stdio.h>
definiert ist.  Die temporäre Datei wird geöffnet in binären
schreib-lese-Modus (w+b).  Die Datei wird automaisch gelöscht sobald
sie geschlossen oder das Programm beendet wird.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B tmpfile()
gibt den stream Deskriptor zurück, oder NULL, wenn ein eindeutiger
Dateiname nicht erzeugt werden konnte oder die eindeutige Datei nicht
geöffnet werden konnte.
.SH "FEHLER"
.TP 
.B EACCES
Such-Zugriff verweigert für ein Verzeichnis im Pfad-Prefix der Datei.
.TP
.B EEXIST
Unfähig, einen eindeutigen Dateinamen zu generieren.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Zu viele Datei-descriptors in Benutzung durch den Prozess.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Zu viele Datei offen im System.
.TP
.B EROFS
Nur-lese - Dateisystem.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR tmpnam (3),
.BR tempnam (3).

