.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:46:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated to German Sat Jun 29 14:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother
.\"                                                  (krd@burn.rhein-ruhr.de)
.\"
.TH TMPNAM 3  "29. Juni 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH NAME
tmpnam \- erzeuge einen Namen für eine temporäre Datei
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *tmpnam(char *" s );
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG 
Die Funktion
.B tmpnam()
erzeugt einen eindeutigen temporären Dateinamen, indem sie das Pfad-Prefix
.I P_tmpdir
benutzt, welches in
.I <stdio.h>
definiert ist.  Wenn das Argument
.I s
NULL ist gibt
.B tmpnam()
die Adresse eines internen statischen Bereichs zurück, die den
Dateinamen enthält, der durch folgende Aufrufe von
.B tmpnam()
überschrieben wird.  Wenn
.I s
nicht NULL ist wird der Dateiname in
.I s
zurückgegeben.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Die Funktion
.B tmpnam()
gibt einen Pointer auf den eindeutigen temporären Dateinamen
zurück, oder NULL wenn kein eindeutiger Name generiert werden konnte.
.SH "FEHLER"
.TP
.B EEXIST
Unfähig, einen eindeutigen Dateinamen zu generieren.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3).

