.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\" (c) 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\"
.\" Added BUGS section, aeb, 950919
.\" Translated to German Mon Jul 01 15:00:00 1996 by Patrick Rother <krd@gulu.net>
.\"
.TH TOASCII 3  "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
toascii \- konvertiere ein Zeichen nach ASCII
.SH ÜBERSICHT
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toascii (int " "c" ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B toascii()
konvertiert
.I c
in einen 7-bit
.B unsigned char
- Wert, der in den ASCII-Zeichensatz passt, durch löschen der
höherwertigen Bits.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Der zurückgegebene Wert ist das konvertierte Zeichen.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
SVID, BSD
.SH BUGS
Viele Leute werde unglücklich sein wenn Sie diese Funktion benutzen.
Diese Funktion konvertiert Buchstaben mit Akzent in zufällige Zeichen.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR isascii (3),
.BR toupper (3),
.BR tolower (3).

