.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Translated into german by Markus Schmitt (fw@math.uni-sb.de)
.\"
.TH TOUPPER 3 "1. Juli 1996" "GNU" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.\"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
toupper , tolower - konvertiert Buchstaben in Groß- und Kleinschreibung
.SH "ÜBERSICHT"
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>.sp
.BI "int toupper (int " "c" ");"
.nl
.BI "int tolower (int " "c" ");"
.fi
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B toupper()
konvertiert den Buchstaben 
.I c 
in den entsprechenden Großbuchstaben, falls dies geht.
.B tolower()
konvertiert den Buchstaben 
.I c 
in den entsprechenden Kleinbuchstaben, falls dies geht.
.SH "RÜCKGABEWERT"
Der Rückgabewert ist der Wert des konvertierten Buchstaben oder
.I c
wenn keine Konvertierung möglich ist.
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
ANSI - C, BSD 4.3
.SH BUGS
Was genau einen Groß- und Kleinbuchstaben ausmacht, hängt sehr von
der Umgebung ab. Die Standardumgebung 
.B """C"""
kennt keine Umlaute.  Darum wird bei Umlauten auch keine
Konvertierung vorgenommen.
.PP
In manchen Umgebungen existieren auch Kleinbuchstaben, die keinen
zugehörigen Großbuchstaben haben, z.B. das deutsche ß.
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR locale (3).

