.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Translated into german Wed 1 Jan 16:05:32 1997 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH TTYNAME 3 "1. Januar 1997" "Linux" "Bibliotheksfunktionen"
.SH BEZEICHNUNG
ttyname \- gib den Namen des Terminals zurück
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ttyname ( int " desc " );"
.fi
.ad b
.SH BESCHREIBUNG
Die Funktion
.B ttyname()
gibt einen Zeiger auf den Pfadnamen des Terminal-Devices zurück, das
mit dem Dateideskriptor
.I desc
geöffnet ist, oder NULL, wenn ein Fehler auftrat (z.B., wenn
.I desc
nicht mit einem Terminal verbunden ist).
.SH "KONFORM ZU"
POSIX.1
.\" don't know about these: SVID, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SIEHE AUCH"
.BR isatty (3),
.BR fstat (3).
