.\" $Id: $
..\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1997 Eric P. Allman
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mailq.1	8.5 (Berkeley) 2/1/97
.\"
.Dd February 1, 1997
.\" Translated into Finnish by rene.gauffin@dlc.fi
.\"				199-08-20
.\"
.TH MAILQ 7 "" "Käyttäjän sovellusohjelmat" ""
.Os BSD 4
.SH NIMI
.Nm mailq
.Nd Tulosta postiviestien jono
.SH "YLEISKATSAUS"
.Nm mailq
.Op Fl v
.SH KUVAUS
.Nm Mailq
tulostaa  yhteenvedon myöhemmin jaettavien postiviestien jonosta
.Pp
Joka viestin ensimmäisellä rivillä on viestin sisäinen tunnus tässä koneessa,
viestin koko tavuina,
päiväys ja aika, jolloin viesti hyväksyttiin jonoon
sekä viestin viimeinen lähettäjä
Toisella rivillä on virheilmoitus, joka aiheutti viestin jäämisen jonoon. tätä tietoa ei ole, jos viesti on ensimmäisen kerran käsiteltävnä
Seuraavillla riveillä on vestin saajat yksi rivillä
.Pp
.Nm Mailq
on identtisesti sma kuin
.Dq Li "sendmail -bp" .
.Pp
Ohjelman valitsimet
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v
Tulostaa laajat tiedot.
Tämä lisää viestin prioriteettia ja viestin ensimmäisellle riville lisätään yksimerkkinen tunniste ("+" tai tyhjä) josta ilmeenee onko varoitusviesti lähetetty.
lisäksi voidaan "tarkistuskäyttäjää" koskevaa tietöa sisältäviä lisärivejä sijoitella viestin saajen joukkoon, tämä näyttää kuka omistaa ne ohjelmar jotka käynnistyvät tämän viestin perusteella ja sen aliaksen nimi, josta tämä käsky johtui., jos tälainen on olemasa.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm mailq
palauttaa arvon 0 joa toiminto onnistui ja >0 jos syntyi virheitä
.SH "KATSO MYÖS"
.Xr sendmail 8
.SH HISTORIA
Käsky
.Nm mailq
ilmantui
.Bx 4.0.:ssa .
.SH "KATSO MYÖS"
