.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Red Hat Software, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" Translated into Finnish by Esa Toivonen (esa.toivonen@helia.fi)
.\"
.TH USERINFO 1 "13. Toukokuuta 1998" "Red Hat Software" "K=E4ytt=E4j=E4n=
 sovellusohjelmat"
.SH NIMI
userinfo \- Graafinen vastine chfn-komennolle.
.SH "YLEISKATSAUS"
.B userinfo
[
.I options
]
.SH KUVAUS
.B userinfo
on graafinen ty=F6kalu, jonka avulla k=E4ytt=E4j=E4 voi helposti muuttaa=
 finger-
tietojaan.
.SH OPTIOT
T=E4ll=E4 ohjelmalla ei ole omia komentorivi valitsimia, mutta hyv=E4ksyy
vakio X ohjelma valitsimet, kuten
.B -display
ja vastaavat.  Man sivulta
.IR X (1)
l=F6yd=E4t joitakin yleisi=E4 valitsimia.
.SH BUGIT
Ei t=E4ll=E4 hetkell=E4 anna palautetta k=E4ytt=E4j=E4lle, jos helpperi=
 pett=E4=E4
v=E4=E4r=E4n salasanan tai vastaavan syyn vuoksi. Seuraavassa versiossa=20
virheen pit=E4isi olla korjattu.
.SH TEKIJ=C4
Otto Hammersmith <otto@redhat.com>
.SH "KATSO MY=D6S"
.IR .BR chfn (1),
.IR .BR finger (1),
.IR .BR passwd (5),

