.\" $Id: $
..\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: ypcat.1,v 1.1.1.1 1997/07/25 20:52:24 kukuk Exp $
.\"
.Dd December 3, 1993
.\" Translated into Finnish by Sami Kuhmonen (sami@iqs.fi)
.\"
.TH YPCAT 7 "" "Käyttäjän sovellusohjelmat" ""
.Os
.SH NIMI
.Nm ypcat
.Nd "tulostaa kaikkien YP-tietokannassa olevien avainten arvot"
.SH "YLEISKATSAUS"
.Nm ypcat
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar domainnimi
.Ar kartannimi
.Nm ypcat 
.Fl x
.SH KUVAUS
.Nm Ypcat
tulostaa kaikkien
.Tnr YP -tietokantojen
avainten arvot kartasta
.Ar kartannimi ,
joka voi olla joko kartan nimi tai lempinimi.
.Pp
Seuraavat optiot tunnetaan:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar domainnimi
Määrittelee muun kuin oletusdomainnimen.
.It Fl k
Näytä kartan avaimet.
Tämä optio on hyödyllinen sellaisten karttojen kanssa, joissa arvot ovat
nulleja tai avain ei ole osa arvoa.
.It Fl t
Estä kartan lempinimien muunnos vastaaviin karttanimiin.
.It Fl x
Näytä kartan lempinimitaulu.
.El
.SH "KATSO MYÖS"
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr yp 4
.SH TEKIJÄ
Theo De Raadt
.SH "KATSO MYÖS"
