.TH BANNER 1 "28 August 1996" \" -*- nroff -*-

.SH NAME
banner \- print large letters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B banner
[\-Chlv] [\-c character] [\-f font] [\-w cols]
[\-\-help] [\-\-use\-letters] [\-\-version]
[\-\-use\-char=character] [\-\-font=font] [\-\-width=cols] [text...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B banner
program is used to print large letters of a given text. If the text is
not given on the command line, it will be read from stdin.

This implementation of banner splits the text in multiple lines if it
is too long to fit on a single line. Splitting is done on
word-boundaries, if possible. To force a line break, include a newline
characters in the text.

Note that contigous whitespace characters are folded to a single
spaace.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-C, \-\-center"
Center each line of the message.

.TP
.I "-h, \-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.

.TP
.I "\-l, \-\-use\-letters"
Use individual characters when drawing the letters, that is: Draw an
`a' using a-characters, a `b' using b-characters, and so on.

.TP
.I "-V, \-\-version"
Print version information on standard output then exit successfully.

.TP
.I "\-c, \-\-use\-char=character"
Use the given
.I character
when drawing the letters. The default is an asterisk (`*').

.TP
.I "\-f, \-\-font=font"
Select font number
.I cols
for drawing characters. There are two available fonts: Number 1 is the
default font. Number 2 is a smaller font.

.TP
.I "\-w, \-\-width=cols"
Assume the screen is
.I cols
columns wide. The default is 75.

.SH AUTHOR
Sverre H. Huseby (shh@thathost.com).
