.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Charles Plessy <charles-debian-nospam@plessy.org>, 28 Apr 2007 21:20:25 Asia/Tokyo
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.TH MOTD.TAIL 5 2007-04-28 "Debian" "Debian Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
motd.tail \- Template for building the system message of the day
.SH DESCRIPTION
On Debian systems, the system message of the day is rebuilt at each
startup, in order to display an accurate
information.  \fI/etc/motd.tail\fP is the file to edit permanent
changes to the message of the day.
.SH OVERVIEW
The initiation script \fI/etc/init.d/bootlogs\fP prepends a line
containing information about the system to \fI/etc/motd.tail\fP and
stores the resulting file in \fI/var/run/motd\fP.  \fI/etc/motd\fP is a
symbolic link to \fI/var/run/motd\fP.  This is done to prevent
changes to
.I /etc
as the system can not assume
.I /etc
to be writable.

Changes to
.I /etc/motd
effectively end up in a file under \fI/var/run\fP which will be
regenerated upon reboot.

A symbolic link to a different file, such as
.I /etc/motd.static
disables this behaviour.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/bootlogs
The initiation script which builds /var/run/motd
.TP
.I /etc/motd
Symbolic link to the system message of the day at /var/run/motd
.TP
.I /etc/motd.tail
Template for building the system message of the day
.TP
.I /var/run/motd
System message of the day file rebuilt at each computer start
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR issue (5),
.BR motd (5).
