.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; version 2 dated June, 1991.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program;  if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.TH MISSING 7 "December 14th, 2001" "Debian GNU/Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
missing \- missing manual pages
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page intends to document which manual pages are missing in
various sections.  Bug reports against the package
.B manpages-dev
or
.B manpages
were opened for all of them through the Debian Bug Tracking System
(BTS).  Some of these bug reports were reported upstream while some
weren't.  Upstream, however, is not able to create arbitrary manpages
without additional information and additional spare time.  Hence, it's
completely useless to simply report them upstream.

Manpages represent an important means of documentation which can
easily be read and converted into various formats.  They are very
helpful for checking how things work, rather than for a tutorial.  If
you notice that more pages are missing, please try to find additional
information and report it as wishlist bug against this package.

If you are confident with the issue, please write up a preliminary
manpage and attach it to the bug report.  It doesn't matter if your
English is bad or if you mixed up markup, as long as the content can
be used as source for a new manpage.  A detailed documentation on how
to write manpages is available in
.BR man (7).

When writing manual pages please ensure that they are conforming with
The Single UNIX Specification (see below).  Linux ought to be
conforming to this specification.  Differences need to be documented,
in additional sections, though.
.SH "MISSING PAGES"
The following is a list of missing pages sorted by section and bug
number.  If you can contribute content or even a manual page, please
send a mail to
.IB nnnnn @bugs.debian.org
where
.I nnnnn
refers to the bug number from below.
.SS "Section 2 - System calls"
.TP
.RI Bug# 235963
.BR timer_create (2)
\- create a per-process timer
.SS "Section 3 - Library calls"
.TP
.RI Bug# 123999
.BR obstack_alloc (3)
\- allocate memory
.br
.BR obstack_free (3)
\- free formerly allocated memory
.br
.BR obstack_copy (3)
\- allocate block with content
.br
.BR obstack_copy0 (3)
\- allocate block with content, zero terminated
.br
.BR obstack_blank (3)
\- increase object size
.br
.BR obstack_grow (3)
\- increase object size with content
.br
.BR obstack_grow0 (3)
\- increase object size with content, zero term.
.br
.BR obstack_1grow (3)
\- increase object size by 1 character
.br
.BR obstack_ptr_grow (3)
\- increase object size by value of pointer
.br
.BR obstack_int_grow (3)
\- increase object size by sizeof(int)
.br
.BR obstack_finish (3)
\- finish growing of an obstack object
.br
.BR obstack_object_size (3)
\- return the size of an obstack object
.br
.BR obstack_room (3)
\- available room in current chunk
.br
.BR obstack_1grow_fast (3)
\- fast increase object size by 1 character
.br
.BR obstack_ptr_grow_fast (3)
\- fast increase object by pointer value
.br
.BR obstack_int_grow_fast (3)
\- fast increase object size by sizeof(int)
.br
.BR obstack_blank_fast (3)
\- fast increase object size
.br
.BR obstack_base (3)
\- return tentative address of beginning
.br
.BR obstack_next_free (3)
\- return address of the first free byte
.br
.BR obstack_object_size (3)
\- return size of currently growing object
.br
.BR obstack_alignment_mask (3)
\- alter mask assignment
.br
.BR obstack_chunk_size (3)
\- return chunk size of given obstack
.br
.BR obstack_init (3)
\- initialize use of an obstack
.TP
.BR sigrelse "(3), " sigignore "(3), " sigpause (3)
\- signal management
.TP
.RI Bug# 147778
.BR sigwait (2)
\- wait for queued signals
.TP
.RI Bug# 160225
.BR sem_close (3)
\- close a named semaphore
.br
.BR sem_destroy (3)
\- destroy an unnamed semaphore
.br
.BR sem_getvalue (3)
\- get the value of a semaphore
.br
.BR sem_init (3)
\- initialize an unnamed semaphore
.br
.BR sem_open (3)
\- initialize/open a named semaphore
.br
.BR sem_post (3)
\- increment the count of a semaphore
.br
.BR sem_trywait "(3), " sem_wait (3)
\- acquire or wait for a semaphore
.br
.BR sem_unlink (3)
\- remove a named semaphore
.TP
.RI Bug# 172139
.BR wcstol (3)
\- convert a wide-character string to a long integer
.TP
.RI Bug# 155334
.BR pthread_mutex (3)
\- Mutex routines for threads
.TP
.RI Bug# 182706
.BR fopencookie (3)
\- open stream for communicating with the cookie
.TP
.RI Bug# 202022
.BR rcmd_af "(3), " rresvport_af "(3), " iruserok_sa (3)
\- routines for returning a stream to a remote command (see
.BR rcmd (3)).
.TP
.RI Bug# 208856
.BR cap_set_proc "(3), " cap_get_proc (3)
\- POSIX capability manipulation on processes
.br
.BR capsetp "(3), " capgetp (3)
\- Linux specific capability manipulation on arbitrary processes
.TP
.RI Bug# 235967
.BR if_nametoindex (3)
\- map network interface name to corresponding index.
.TP
.RI Bug# 268121
.BR rpmatch (3)
\- determine whether a response is affirmative or negative.
.TP
.RI Bug# 349388
.BR argp_parse (3)
\- main interface to argp.
.TP
.RI Bug# 581722
.BR mallinfo (3)
\- Additional information about
.BR malloc (3).
.SS "Section 4 - Special files"
.TP
.RI Bug# 209323
.BR pty (4)
\- pseudo terminal driver
.SS "Section 9 - Kernel routines"
.TP
.RI Bug# 102724
Mandrake seems to deliver section 9 manual pages, though their source
is obscure and they do seem to be out-dated.  Nevertheless, some
section 9 manpages would be nice, indeed.
.TP
.RI Bug# 179475
.BR bdflush (9)
\- flush buffers to disk
.br
.BR kapmd (9)
\- kernel APM thread
.br
.BR keventd (9)
\- manage hotplug events
.br
.BR khubd (9)
\- kernel USB hub daemon thread
.br
.BR kjournald (9)
\- maintain the filesystem journal
.br
.BR ksoftirqd (9)
\- software handling of incoming IRQs
.br
.BR kswapd (9)
\- kernel swap daemon thread
.br
.BR kupdated (9)
\- flush the journal
.br
.BR scsi_eh (9)
\- kernel SCSI error handler thread
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR undocumented (3),
.BR undocumented (7),
.BR man (7).
.br
Debian Bug Tracking System at
.RB < http://bugs.debian.org/manpages-dev >,
the Single UNIX Specification, Version 2, at
.RB < http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/toc.htm >,
the Single UNIX Specification, Version 3, at
.RB < http://www.UNIX-systems.org/version3/ >.
